U.S. GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 50–119 PDF 2022 BUSINESS MEETING TO CONSIDER THE SELECT 
COMMITTEE’S FINAL REPORT 
MEETING 
OF THE  
SELECT COMMITTEE TO 
INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH 
ATTACK ON THE 
UNITED STATES CAPITOL 
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
ONE HUNDRED SEVENTEENTH CONGRESS 
SECOND SESSION 
DECEMBER 19, 2022 
Serial No. 117–6 
Printed for the use of the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th 
Attack On the United States Capitol 
Available via the World Wide Web: http://www.govinfo.gov  (II) SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON 
THE UNITED STATES CAPITOL 
BENNIE G. T HOMPSON , Mississippi, Chairman 
LIZCHENEY , Wyoming, Vice Chair 
ZOELOFGREN , California 
ADAM B. S CHIFF , California 
PETE AGUILAR , California 
STEPHANIE N. M URPHY , Florida 
JAMIE RASKIN , Maryland 
ELAINE G. L URIA , Virginia 
ADAM KINZINGER , Illinois  (III) COMMITTEE STAFF 
DAVID B. B UCKLEY , Staff Director 
KRISTIN L. A MERLING , Deputy Staff Director and Chief Counsel 
HOPE GOINS , Senior Counsel to the Chairman 
JOSEPH B. M AHER , Senior Counsel to the Vice Chair 
TIMOTHY J. H EAPHY , Chief Investigative Counsel 
JAMIE FLEET , Senior Advisor 
TIMOTHY R. M ULVEY , Communications Director 
CANDYCE PHOENIX , Senior Counsel and Senior Advisor 
JOHN F. W OOD, Senior Investigative Counsel and Of Counsel to the Vice Chair 
KATHERINE B. A BRAMS , Staff Associate 
TEMIDAYO AGANGA -WILLIAMS , Senior 
Investigative Counsel 
ALEJANDRA APECECHEA , Investigative Counsel 
LISAA. B IANCO , Director of Member Services 
and Security Manager 
JEROME P. B JELOPERA , Investigator 
BRYAN BONNER , Investigative Counsel 
RICHARD R. B RUNO , Senior Administrative 
Assistant 
MARCUS CHILDRESS , Investigative Counsel 
JOHN MARCUS CLARK , Security Director 
JACQUELINE N. C OLVETT , Digital Director 
HEATHER I. C ONNELLY , Professional Staff 
Member 
MEGHAN E. C ONROY , Investigator 
HEATHER L. C ROWELL , Printer Proofreader 
WILLIAM C. D ANVERS , Senior Researcher 
SOUMYALATHA DAYANANDA , Senior 
Investigative Counsel 
STEPHEN W. D EVINE, Senior Counsel 
LAWRENCE J. E AGLEBURGER , Professional 
Staff Member 
KEVIN S. E LLIKER , Investigative Counsel 
MARGARET E. E MAMZADEH , Staff Associate 
SADALLAH A. F ARAH , Professional Staff 
Member 
DANIEL A. G EORGE , Senior Investigative 
Counsel 
JACOB H. G LICK, Investigative Counsel 
AARON S. G REENE , Clerk 
MARC S. H ARRIS , Senior Investigative Counsel 
ALICE K. H AYES , Clerk 
QUINCY T. H ENDERSON , Staff Assistant 
JENNA HOPKINS , Professional Staff Member 
CAMISHA L. J OHNSON , Professional Staff 
Member THOMAS E. J OSCELYN , Senior Professional 
Staff Member 
REBECCA L. K NOOIHUIZEN , Financial 
Investigator 
CASEY E. L UCIER , Investigative Counsel 
DAMON M. M ARX, Professional Staff Member 
EVAN B. M AULDIN , Chief Clerk 
YONATAN L. M OSKOWITZ , Senior Counsel 
HANNAH G. M ULDAVIN , Deputy 
Communications Director 
JONATHAN D. M URRAY , Professional Staff 
Member 
JACOB A. N ELSON , Professional Staff Member 
ELIZABETH OBRAND , Staff Associate 
RAYMOND O’M ARA, Director of External 
Affairs 
ELYES OUECHTATI , Technology Partner 
ROBIN M. P EGUERO , Investigative Counsel 
SANDEEP A. P RASANNA , Investigative Counsel 
BARRY PUMP, Parliamentarian 
SEAN M. Q UINN , Investigative Counsel 
BRITTANY M. J. R ECORD , Senior Counsel 
DENVER RIGGLEMAN , Senior Technical Advisor 
JOSHUA D. R OSELMAN , Investigative Counsel 
JAMES N. S ASSO , Senior Investigative Counsel 
GRANT H. S AUNDERS , Professional Staff 
Member 
SAMANTHA O. S TILES , Chief Administrative 
Officer 
SEAN P. T ONOLLI , Senior Investigative 
Counsel 
DAVID A. W EINBERG , Senior Professional Staff 
Member 
AMANDA S. W ICK, Senior Investigative 
Counsel 
DARRIN L. W ILLIAMS , JR., Staff Assistant 
ZACHARY S. W OOD, Clerk  (IV) CONTRACTORS & CONSULTANTS 
RAWAA ALOBAIDI  
MELINDA ARONS  
STEVE BAKER  
ELIZABETH BISBEE  
DAVID CANADY  
JOHN COUGHLIN  
AARON DIETZEN  
GINAFERRISE  
ANGEL GOLDSBOROUGH  
JAMES GOLDSTON  
POLLY GRUBE  
L. C HRISTINE HEALEY  
DANNY HOLLADAY  
PERCY HOWARD  
DEAN JACKSON  
STEPHANIE J. J ONES  
HYATT MAMOUN  
MARY MARSH  
TODD MASON  
RYAN MAYERS  
JEFFMCBRIDE  
FRED MURAM  
ALEX NEWHOUSE  
JOHN NORTON  
ORLANDO PINDER  
OWEN PRATT  
DANPRYZGODA  
BRIAN SASSER  
WILLIAM SCHERER  
DRISS SEKKAT  
CHRIS STUART  
PRESTON SULLIVAN  
BRIAN YOUNG  
INNOVATIVE DRIVEN   (V) C O N T E N T S 
Page 
STATEMENTS OF MEMBERS OF CONGRESS  
The Honorable Bennie G. Thompson, a Representative in Congress From 
the State of Mississippi, and Chairman, Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack On the United States Capitol ..................................... 1 
The Honorable Liz Cheney, a Representative in Congress From the State 
of Wyoming, and Vice Chair, Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack On the United States Capitol ........................................................... 2 
The Honorable Zoe Lofgren, a Representative in Congress From the State 
of California .......................................................................................................... 7 
The Honorable Adam B. Schiff, a Representative in Congress From the State 
of California .......................................................................................................... 9 
The Honorable Adam Kinzinger, a Representative in Congress From the 
State of Illinois ..................................................................................................... 10 
The Honorable Pete Aguilar, a Representative in Congress From the State 
of California .......................................................................................................... 12 
The Honorable Stephanie N. Murphy, a Representative in Congress From 
the State of Florida .............................................................................................. 13 
The Honorable Elaine G. Luria, a Representative in Congress From the 
State of Virginia ................................................................................................... 14 
The Honorable Jamie Raskin, a Representative in Congress From the State 
of Maryland .......................................................................................................... 16 
C
OMMITTEE BUSINESS  
Final Report ............................................................................................................. 19   (1) BUSINESS MEETING TO CONSIDER THE 
SELECT COMMITTEE’S FINAL REPORT 
Monday, December 19, 2022 
U.S. H OUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES , 
SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH 
ATTACK ON THE UNITED STATES CAPITOL , 
Washington, DC. 
The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 1:07 p.m., in the 
Speaker Nancy Pelosi Caucus Room, room 390, Cannon House Of-fice Building, Hon. Bennie G. Thompson (Chairman of the Com-mittee) presiding. 
Present: Representatives Thompson, Cheney, Lofgren, Schiff, 
Aguilar, Murphy, Raskin, Luria, and Kinzinger. 
Chairman T
HOMPSON . A quorum being present, the Select Com-
mittee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol will be in order. 
Without objection, the Chair is authorized to declare the Com-
mittee in recess at any point. 
Pursuant to House Deposition Authority Regulation 10, the 
Chair announces the Committee’s approval to release the deposi-tion material presented during today’s meeting and, further, its ap-proval to release deposition material that accompanies the release of the Select Committee’s final report. 
Good afternoon, and may God bless the United States of Amer-
ica. 
To cast a vote in the United States is an act of faith and hope. 
When we drop that ballot in the ballot box, we expect the people named on the ballot are going to uphold their end of the deal. The winner swears an oath and upholds it. Those who come up short ultimately accept the results and abide by the rule of law. 
That faith in our system is the foundation of American democ-
racy. If the faith is broken, so is our democracy. 
Donald Trump broke that faith. He lost the 2020 election and 
knew it. But he chose to try to stay in office through a multi-part scheme to overturn the results and block the transfer of power. 
In the end, he summoned a mob to Washington and, knowing 
they were armed and angry, pointed them to the Capitol and told them to ‘‘fight like hell.’’ There is no doubt about this. 
This afternoon, my colleagues will present our key findings, re-
minding you of some of the information we presented in earlier hearings and telling you how it fits in our broader conclusions. 
Those conclusions have helped shape the Committee’s final re-
port, which we will adopt today pursuant to House Resolution 503, which established the Select Committee nearly a year-and-a-half  2 
ago. I expect our final work will be filed with the Clerk of the 
House and made public later this week. 
Beyond that release, the Select Committee intends to make pub-
lic the bulk of its nonsensitive records before the end of the year. These transcripts and documents will allow the American people to see for themselves the body of evidence we have gathered and con-tinue to explore the information that has led us to our conclusions. 
This Committee is nearing the end of its work, but, as a country, 
we remain in strange and uncharted waters. We have never had a President of the United States stir up a violent attempt to block the transfer of power. 
I believe, nearly 2 years later, this is still a time of reflection and 
reckoning. If we are to survive as a Nation of laws and democracy, this can never happen again. 
How do we stop it? This Committee will lay out a number of recommendations in its 
final report, but beyond any specific details and recommendations we present, there is one factor I believe is most important in pre-venting another January 6th: accountability. 
So, today, beyond our findings, we will also show that evidence 
we have gathered points to further action beyond the power of this Committee or the Congress to help ensure accountability under law, accountability that can only be found in the criminal justice system. 
We have every confidence that the work of this Committee will 
help provide a road map to justice and that the agencies and insti-tutions responsible for ensuring justice under the law will use the information we have provided to aid in their work. 
For those of you who have followed this Committee’s work, I 
hope we have helped make clear that there is a broader kind of ac-countability—accountability to all of you, the American people. 
The future of our democracy rests in your hands. It is up to the 
people of this country to decide who deserves the public trust, who will put fidelity to the Constitution and democracy above all else, who will abide by the rule of law no matter the outcome. 
I am grateful to the millions of you who have followed this Com-
mittee’s work. I hope we lived up to our commitment to present the facts and let the facts speak for themselves. 
Let me say in closing, the women and men seated around me on 
this dais are public servants in the most genuine sense. They have put aside politics and partisanship to ensure the success of this Committee in providing answers to the American people. 
I especially want to thank and acknowledge our Vice Chair, who 
has become a true partner in this bipartisan effort, Ms. Cheney of Wyoming. 
I also recognize her for any opening statement that she would 
care to offer. 
Vice Chair C
HENEY . Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 
Thank you for your tremendous leadership of this Committee. I know we all have benefited greatly from your wisdom and your wise counsel, so thank you very much. 
In April of 1861, when Abraham Lincoln issued the first call for 
volunteers for the Union Army, my great-great-grandfather, Sam-uel Fletcher Cheney, joined the 21st Ohio Volunteer Infantry.  3 
He fought through all 4 years of the Civil War, from Chicka-
mauga, to Stones River, to Atlanta. He marched with his unit in the Grand Review of Troops up Pennsylvania Avenue in May of 1865 past a reviewing stand where President Johnson and General Grant were seated. 
Silas Canfield, the regimental historian of the 21st Ohio Volun-
teer Infantry, described the men in the unit this way. He said, ‘‘They had a just appreciation of the value and advantage of free government and the necessity of defending and maintaining it. And they enlisted, prepared to accept all the necessary labors, fatigues, exposures, dangers, and even death, for the unity of our Nation and the perpetuity of our institutions.’’ 
I have found myself thinking often, especially since January 6th, 
of my great-great-grandfather and all those in every generation who have sacrificed so much for the unity of our Nation and the perpetuity of our institutions. 
At the heart of our Republic is the guarantee of the peaceful 
transfer of power. Members of Congress are reminded of this every day as we pass through the Capitol Rotunda. There, eight magnifi-cent paintings detail the earliest days of our Republic. 
One, painted by John Trumbull, depicts the moment in 1783 
when George Washington resigned his commission, handing control of the Continental Army back to Congress. Trumbull called this ‘‘one of the highest moral lessons ever given the world.’’ With this noble act, George Washington established the indispensable exam-ple of the peaceful transfer of power in our Nation. 
Standing on the West Front of the Capitol in 1981, President 
Ronald Reagan described it this way: ‘‘The orderly transfer of au-thority, as called for in the Constitution, routinely takes place, as it has for almost two centuries, and few of us stop to think how unique we really are. In the eyes of many in the world, this every- four-year ceremony that we accept as normal is nothing less than a miracle.’’ 
Every President in our history has defended this orderly transfer 
of authority—except one. January 6, 2021, was the first time one American President refused his constitutional duty to transfer power peacefully to the next. 
In our work over the last 18 months, the Select Committee has 
recognized our obligation to do everything we can to ensure this never happens again. 
At the beginning of our investigation, we understood that tens of 
millions of Americans had been persuaded by President Trump that the 2020 election was stolen by overwhelming fraud. We also knew this was flatly false. 
We knew that dozens of the State and Federal judges had ad-
dressed and resolved all manner of allegations about the election. Our legal system functioned as it should, but our President would not accept the outcome. 
Among the most shameful of this Committee’s findings was that 
President Trump sat in a dining room off the Oval Office watching the violent riot at the Capitol on television. For hours, he would not issue a public statement instructing his supporters to disperse and leave the Capitol despite urgent pleas from his White House staff and dozens of others to do so. Members of his family, his  4 
White House lawyers, virtually all those around him, knew that 
this simple act was critical. For hours, he would not do it. 
During this time, law enforcement agents were attacked and se-
riously injured, the Capitol was invaded, the electoral count was halted, and the lives of those in the Capitol were put at risk. 
In addition to being unlawful, as described in our report, this 
was an utter moral failure and a clear dereliction of duty. Evidence of this can be seen in the testimony of President Trump’s own White House Counsel and several other White House witnesses. 
No man who would behave that way at that moment in time can 
ever serve in any position of authority in our Nation again. He is unfit for any office. 
The Committee recognizes that our work has only begun; it is 
only the initial step in addressing President Trump’s effort to re-main in office illegally. Prosecutors are considering the implications of the conduct that we describe in our report, as are citizens all across our Nation. 
In 1761, John Adams wrote, ‘‘The very ground of our liberties is 
the freedom of elections. Faith in our elections and the rule of law is paramount to our Republic.’’ Election deniers, those who refuse to accept lawful election results, purposely attack the rule of law and the foundation of our country. 
The history of our time will show that the bravery of a handful 
of Americans doing their duty saved us from an even more grave constitutional crisis. Elected officials, election workers, and public servants stood against Donald Trump’s corrupt pressure. 
Many of our Committee’s witnesses showed selfless patriotism, 
and their words and courage will be remembered. The brave men and women of the Capitol Police, the Metropolitan Police, and all the other law enforcement officers who fought to defend us that day saved lives and our democracy. 
Finally, I wish to thank my colleagues on this Committee. It has 
been a tremendous honor to serve with all of you. We have accom-plished great and important things together, and I hope we have set an example. 
I also want to thank all of those who have honorably contributed 
to the work of our Committee and to our report. We have accom-plished much over a short period of time. Many of you sacrificed for the good of our Nation. You have helped make history and, I hope, helped to right the ship. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentlewoman yields back. 
As you know, this is our final meeting of our Committee. Over 
the course of the last year-and-a-half, we have presented evidence in nine public hearings, testimony from our brave law enforcement officers, senior White House and campaign officials, and many oth-ers. Today, we are prepared to share our final findings with you. 
But before we do so, it is important to remember what we have 
learned and, critically, exactly what happened at the United States Capitol on January 6th. 
Without objection, I include in the record a video presentation of 
some of the key evidence our investigation has uncovered.  5 
Officer E DWARDS . There were officers on the ground. They were bleeding. They 
were throwing up. I mean, I saw friends with blood all over their faces. I was slip-ping in people’s blood. 
Officer F
ANONE . As I was swarmed by a violent mob, they ripped off my badge. 
They grabbed and stripped me of my radio. They seized ammunition that was se-cured to my body. They began to beat me with their fists and with what felt like hard metal objects. 
Mr. S
TONE . The key thing to do is to claim victory. No, we won. Fuck you. Sorry. 
Over. We won. You’re wrong. Fuck you. 
Attorney General B ARR. Right out of the box on election night, the President 
claimed that there was major fraud underway. I mean, this happened, as far as I could tell, before there was actually any potential of looking at evidence. 
Mr. S
TEPIEN . I didn’t think what was happening was necessarily honest or profes-
sional at that point in time. So that led to me stepping away. 
Mr. M ORGAN . Generally discussed on that topic was whether the fraud, mal-
administration, abuse, or irregularities, if aggregated and read most favorably to the campaign, would that be outcome-determinant? And I think everyone’s assessment in the room, at least amongst the staff—Marc Short, myself, and Greg Jacob—was that it was not sufficient to be outcome-determinative. 
Secretary of Labor S
CALIA . I told him that I did believe, yes, that once those legal 
processes were run, if fraud had not been established that had affected the outcome of the election, then, unfortunately, I believed that what had to be done was concede the outcome. 
Ms. L
OFGREN . What were the chances of President Trump winning the election? 
Mr. S TIREWALT . After that point? 
Ms. L OFGREN . Yes. 
Mr. S TIREWALT . None. 
President T RUMP . So what are we gonna do here, folks? I only need 11,000 votes. 
Fellas, I need 11,000 votes. Give me a break. 
Mr. R AFFENSPERGER . The numbers are the numbers. The numbers don’t lie. We 
had many allegations, and we investigated every single one of them. 
Mr. S CHIFF . Did one of them make a comment that they didn’t have evidence but 
they had a lot of theories? 
Mr. B OWERS . That was Mr. Giuliani. 
Mr. S CHIFF . And what exactly did he say, and how did that come up? 
Mr. B OWERS . My recollection, he said, ‘‘We’ve got lots of theories. We just don’t 
have the evidence.’’ 
You are asking me do something that has never been done in history, the history 
of the United States, and I am going to put my State through that without sufficient proof? 
Mr. G
IULIANI . There is a tape earlier in the day of Ruby Freeman and Shaye Free-
man Moss and one other gentleman quite obviously surreptitiously passing around USB ports as if they are vials of heroin or cocaine. 
Mr. S
CHIFF . In one of the videos we just watched, Mr. Giuliani accused you and 
your mother of passing some sort of USB drive to each other. What was your mom actually handing you on that video? 
Ms. M
OSS. A ginger mint. 
Ms. F REEMAN . Do you know how it feels to have the President of the United 
States target you? The President of the United States is supposed to represent every American, not to target one. 
Attorney General B
ARR. I made it clear I did not agree with the idea of saying 
the election was stolen and putting out this stuff which I told the President was bullshit. 
Acting Attorney General R
OSEN . He wanted to talk about that he thought the 
election had been stolen or was corrupt and that there was widespread fraud. And I had told him that our reviews had not shown that to be the case. 
Mr. D
ONOGHUE . And I said something to the effect of, ‘‘Sir, we’ve done dozens of 
investigations, hundreds of interviews. The major allegations are not supported by the evidence developed.’’ 
Mr. C
IPOLLONE . Well, my first thought was, this is a terrible idea. Jeff Clark can-
not be installed as Acting Attorney General of the United States. 
Mr. H EAPHY . You ultimately told us that you described this meeting as a—or, not 
this meeting—the Georgia letter that was proposed as an F’ing murder-suicide pact. Do you remember using the term ‘‘murder-suicide pact’’? 
Mr. C
IPOLLONE . Yes. 
CROWD . Hang Mike Pence! Hang Mike Pence!  6 
Mr. H EAPHY . Was it your impression that the Vice President had directly con-
veyed his position on these issues to the President, not just to the world through a dear-colleague letter, but directly to President Trump? 
Mr. S
HORT . Many times. 
Mr. C IPOLLONE . My view is that the Vice President didn’t have the legal authority 
to do anything except what he did. 
Mr. H ERSCHMANN . And I said to him, ‘‘Hold on a second. I want to understand 
what you’re saying. You’re saying that you believe the Vice President, acting as President of the Senate, can be the sole decision maker as to, under your theory, who becomes the next President of the United States?’’ And he said, ‘‘Yes.’’ And I said, ‘‘Are you out of your F’ing mind?’’ 
Mr. J
ASON MILLER . The President was—you know, all the attention was on what 
Mike would do or what Mike wouldn’t do. 
Mr. W OOD. There is a telephone conversation between the President and the Vice 
President; is that correct? 
VOICE . Yes. 
Ms. T RUMP . The conversation was pretty heated. 
Mr. T ONOLLI . I apologize for being impolite, but do you remember what she said 
her father called him? 
Ms. R ADFORD . The P word. 
CROWD . Bring out Pence! Bring out Pence! 
Ms. M ATTHEWS . It was clear that it was escalating and escalating quickly. 
CROWD . Hang Mike Pence! Hang Mike Pence! 
Ms. M ATTHEWS . So, then, when that tweet, the Mike Pence tweet, was sent out, 
I remember us saying that that was the last thing that needed to be tweeted at that point. It felt like he was pouring gasoline on the fire by tweeting that. 
V
OICE . They’ve gained access to the second floor, and I’ve got public about 5 feet 
from me down below. 
VOICE . OK, copy. They are on the second floor. Moving in now. We may want to 
consider getting out and leaving now. Copy? 
WHITE HOUSE SECURITY OFFICIAL . The members of the VP detail at this time 
were starting to fear for their own lives. There were calls to say goodbye to family members, so on and so forth. 
Mr. A
GUILAR . Approximately 40 feet, that’s all there was, 40 feet, between the 
Vice President and the mob. 
Mr. L UTTIG . Donald Trump and his allies and supporters are a clear and present 
danger to American democracy. 
Mr. H ARVIN . We got derogatory information from OSINT suggesting that some 
very, very violent individuals were organizing to come to D.C. 
Ms. H UTCHINSON . As Mr. Giuliani and I were walking to his vehicles that 
evening, he looked at me and said something to the effect of, ‘‘Cass, are you excited 
for the 6th? It’s going to be a great day.’’ I remember looking at him and saying, ‘‘Rudy, could you explain what’s happening on the 6th?’’ And he had responded something to the effect of, ‘‘We’re going to the Capitol. It’s going to be great. The President’s going to be there. He’s going to look powerful.’’ 
V
OICE . We were invited by the President of the United States! 
Mr. B ARBER . He personally asked for us to come to D.C. that day. And I thought, 
for everything he’s done for us, if this is the only thing he’s going to ask of me, I’ll do it. 
Mr. A
YRES . Well, basically, you know, the President, you know, got everybody 
riled up, told everybody to head on down. So we basically were just following what he said. 
V
OICE . We’ve lost the line. We’ve lost the line. All PD, get back. 
Mrs. L URIA . Within 15 minutes of leaving the stage, President Trump knew that 
the Capitol was besieged and under attack. 
Vice Chair C HENEY . So are you aware of any phone call by the President of the 
United States to the Secretary of Defense that day? 
Mr. C IPOLLONE . Not that I’m aware of, no. 
Vice Chair C HENEY . Are you aware of any phone call by the President of the 
United States to the Attorney General of the United States that day? 
Mr. C IPOLLONE . No. 
Vice Chair C HENEY . Are you aware of any phone call by the President of the 
United States to the Secretary of Homeland Security that day? 
Mr. C IPOLLONE . I am not aware of that, no. 
Mr. G EORGE . Did you ever hear the President ask—— 
General K ELLOGG . No. 
Mr. G EORGE . [continuing]. For the National Guard? 
General K ELLOGG . No.  7 
Mr. G EORGE . Did you ever hear the President ask for a law enforcement response? 
General K ELLOGG . No. 
General M ILLEY . You’ve got an assault on the Capitol of the United States of 
America, and there’s nothing? No call? Nothing? Zero? 
CROWD . Hang Mike Pence! Hang Mike Pence! 
Ms. H UTCHINSON . I remember Pat saying something to the effect of, ‘‘Mark, we 
need to do something more. They’re literally calling for the Vice President to be F’ing hung.’’ And Mark had responded something to the effect of, ‘‘You heard him, Pat. He thinks Mike deserves it. He doesn’t think they’re doing anything wrong.’’ 
Vice Chair C
HENEY . Who on the staff did not want people to leave the Capitol? 
Mr. C IPOLLONE . On the staff? 
Vice Chair C HENEY . In the White House. 
Mr. C IPOLLONE . I can’t think of anybody, you know, on that day who didn’t want 
people to get out of the Capitol, you know, particularly once the violence started. No. I mean—— 
Mr. S
CHIFF . What about the President? 
Vice Chair C HENEY . Yes. 
Mr. C IPOLLONE . Well, she said the staff, so I answered—— 
Vice Chair C HENEY . No, I said in the White House. 
Mr. C IPOLLONE . Oh, I’m sorry. I apologize. I thought you said who else on the 
staff. 
I can’t reveal communications. But, obviously, I think, you know—yes. Mr. H
ERSCHMANN . I said, ‘‘Good, John. Now I’m going to give you the best free 
legal advice you’re ever getting in your life. Get a great F’ing criminal defense law-yer. You’re gonna need it.’’ 
Vice Chair C
HENEY . General Flynn, do you believe in the peaceful transition of 
power in the United States of America? 
General F LYNN . The Fifth. 
VOICE . We’ve got another officer unconscious at the Terrace, West Terrace. 
President T RUMP . I don’t want to say the election’s over. I just want to say Con-
gress has certified the results without saying the election’s over, OK? 
Chairman T HOMPSON . The Chair now recognizes the gentle-
woman from California, Ms. Lofgren, for an opening statement. 
Ms. L OFGREN . Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
Over the last 18 months, the Select Committee has conducted a 
congressional investigation of enormous scale seeking to uncover the depth and breadth of ex-President Trump’s multi-part plan to reverse the lawful outcome of the 2020 Presidential election. We have compiled an immense volume of documents collected from countless individuals, law enforcement agencies, and Federal and State authorities. 
Many of our efforts to get the evidence required litigation in Fed-
eral court, including the U.S. Supreme Court. We have taken the testimony of hundreds of witnesses. While we couldn’t show them all during the hearings, we focused on those who were most cen-tral, including our ex-President’s White House aides, his senior De-partment of Justice officials, and senior members of his campaign. 
Based on this assembled evidence, the Select Committee has 
reached a series of specific findings. Now, many of these findings pertain to what has been called the ‘‘Big Lie’’—the enormous effort, led by ex-President Trump, to spread baseless accusations and mis-information in an attempt to falsely convince tens of millions of Americans that the election had been stolen from him. 
Beginning even before the election and continuing through Janu-
ary 6th and thereafter, Donald Trump purposely disseminated false allegations of fraud in order to aid his effort to overturn the 2020 election. 
Ex-President Trump’s decision to declare victory falsely on elec-
tion night wasn’t a spontaneous decision; it was premeditated. The Committee has evidence that ex-President Trump planned to de- 8 
clare victory and to unlawfully call for the vote-counting to stop 
and that he told numerous allies about his intent in the weeks be-fore the election. 
The Committee found that Mr. Trump raised hundreds of mil-
lions of dollars with false representations made to his on-line do-nors. The proceeds from his fundraising, we have learned, have been used in ways that we believe are concerning. In particular, the Committee has learned that some of those funds were used to hire lawyers. 
We have also obtained evidence of efforts to provide or offer em-
ployment to witnesses. For example, one lawyer told a witness the witness could in certain circumstances tell the Committee that she didn’t recall facts when she actually did recall them. That lawyer also did not disclose who was paying for the lawyer’s representa-tion, despite questions from the client seeking that information. He told her, ‘‘We are not telling people where funding is coming from right now.’’ 
We have learned that a client was offered potential employment 
that would make her ‘‘financially very comfortable’’ as the date of her testimony approached by entities that were apparently linked to Donald Trump and his associates. These offers were withdrawn or didn’t materialize as reports of the content of her testimony cir-culated. The witness believed this was an effort to affect her testi-mony, and we are concerned that these efforts may have been a strategy to prevent the Committee from finding the truth. 
Throughout the post-election period, ex-President Trump was 
told repeatedly by his campaign advisors, Government officials, and others there was no evidence to support his claims of election fraud. 
Even since our last hearing, the Select Committee has obtained 
testimony from new witnesses who have come forward to tell us about their conversations with ex-President Trump on this topic. Here is one of his senior advisors, Hope Hicks. 
Ms. H ICKS [continuing]. Seeing evidence of fraud on a scale that would have im-
pacted the outcome of the election. And I was becoming increasingly concerned that we were damaging—we were damaging his legacy. 
Mr. W
OOD. What did the President say in response to what you just described? 
Ms. H ICKS. He said something along the lines of, you know, ‘‘Nobody will care 
about my legacy if I lose, so that won’t matter. The only things that matters is win-ning.’’ 
Ms. L OFGREN . Despite all that, he continued to purposely and 
maliciously make false claims, sometimes within a day of being told that a particular claim was false and unsupported by the evidence. 
By the time the electoral college met to cast its votes on Decem-
ber 14, 2020, a number of President Trump’s senior staff, Cabinet officials, and members of his family were urging him to facilitate a peaceful transition to the incoming administration. He dis-regarded their advice, and he continued to claim publicly that the election had been stolen from him. 
Numerous State and Federal courts evaluated and rejected the 
Trump campaign’s claims of voter fraud, including 11 judges ap-pointed by ex-President Trump himself. Many of these courts issued scathing opinions criticizing the lack of evidence that ex- President Trump and his allies had advanced to support their claims.  9 
Numerous individuals associated with these efforts have since 
acknowledged that they were unable to find sufficient evidence of fraud to affect the election results, including in testimony to this Select Committee. 
Still, ex-President Trump repeated those false claims and tried 
to convince his supporters the election was stolen. This was an at-tempt to justify overturning the lawful election results. 
Donald Trump knowingly and corruptly repeated election fraud 
lies, which incited his supporters to violence on January 6th. He continues to repeat his meritless claim that the election was stolen even today and continues to erode our most cherished and shared belief in free and fair elections. 
Mr. Chairman, I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentlewoman yields back. 
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California, Mr. Schiff, 
for an opening statement. 
Mr. S CHIFF . Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
Building on his constant repetition of the Big Lie, President 
Trump engaged in an unprecedented effort to obstruct the joint ses-sion on January 6th, the proceeding where his electoral loss would be certified by Congress. 
This effort began in part in the States, which hold, count, and 
ultimately determine the winners of Presidential elections. Many State officials were targeted by President Trump and his campaign: the local election workers he accused baselessly of election fraud, the State officials he pressured to stop the count or to find votes that didn’t exist, and the State legislative officials he urged to dis-regard the popular will of the voters and their oath of office in order to name him the winner instead. 
Here are the Select Committee findings about President Trump’s 
State pressure campaign. 
President Trump and his enablers repeatedly pressured State of-
ficials to take action to overturn the results of the election. The most dramatic example of this campaign of coercion was the Presi-dent’s January 2, 2021, call to Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger in which the President urged the secretary to ‘‘find 11,780 votes’’ he needed to change the outcome in that State. 
During that call, President Trump again repeated conspiracy 
theories about the election that his own appointees at the Depart-ment of Justice had already debunked. Trump also made what Sec-retary Raffensperger accurately considered a threat, suggesting that Raffensperger and his attorney could be subject to criminal prosecution if they didn’t follow through with his demands. 
Then, in repeated telephone calls and in-person meetings, Donald 
Trump pressured State elections officials and State legislators to alter official election results. 
But courageous public servants, including Republicans like Rusty 
Bowers, held firm and refused to put Donald Trump over their oath to the Constitution. 
When Donald Trump’s pressure campaign did not achieve the re-
sults he wanted, he oversaw an effort to obtain and transmit false electoral college ballots to Congress and the National Archives. The false ballots were created by fake Republican electors on December  10 
14th, at the same time the actual certified electors in those States 
were meeting to cast their votes for President Biden. 
By that point in time, election-related litigation was over in all 
or nearly all of these States, and Trump campaign election lawyers realized that the fake slates were unjustifiable on any grounds and may be unlawful. 
In spite of these concerns and the concerns of individuals in the 
White House Counsel’s Office, President Trump and others pro-ceeded with this plan. The Select Committee has developed evi-dence that these intentionally false documents were transmitted to multiple officers of the Federal Government and were intended to interfere with the proper conduct of the joint session, where the ex-istence of so-called ‘‘competing slates’’ of electors would serve as a pretext for legitimate electoral votes to be rejected. 
President Trump repeatedly attacked State and local officials 
who refused to do his bidding, as well as local elections workers who he baselessly accused of fraud. 
As Ruby Freeman and the testimony of other elections officials 
so powerfully demonstrated, the people who drew President Trump’s ire or were the subject of his lies faced real-world con-sequences, including public harassment and death threats. Some of these elections workers and officials have been forced to leave their homes. Others have been forced to leave the jobs they loved. 
Take a listen to Ms. Freeman’s story. 
Ms. F REEMAN . Now I won’t even introduce myself by my name anymore. I get 
nervous when I bump into someone I know in the grocery store who says my name. I’m worried about who’s listening. I get nervous when I have to give my name for food orders. I’m always concerned of who’s around me. I’ve lost my name, and I’ve lost my reputation. 
Mr. S CHIFF . The treatment of Ms. Freeman and her daughter 
Shaye Moss and so many others around the country was callous, inhuman, inexcusable, and dangerous. Those responsible should be held accountable. 
Mr. Chairman, I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentleman yields back. 
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Illinois, Mr. Kinzinger, 
for an opening statement. 
Mr. K INZINGER . Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
Certainly one of the many important components of our Federal 
Government is the Department of Justice. It is the body that is re-sponsible for enforcing our laws and investigating criminal wrong-doing. 
For this reason, it is of the utmost importance that our Depart-
ment of Justice operates as a fair and neutral body that enforces our Federal laws without fear or without favor. 
It is this critical function that President Trump sought to corrupt 
as he sought to use the Department of Justice to investigate and prosecute purported election fraud and to help him convince the public that the election was stolen. 
The Select Committee has made the following findings with re-
spect to the Department of Justice. 
In the weeks immediately following the 2020 election, Attorney 
General Bill Barr advised President Trump that the Department of  11 
Justice had not seen any evidence to support Trump’s theory that 
the election was stolen by fraud. No evidence. 
Over the course of the three meetings in this post-election period, 
Attorney General Barr assured President Trump that the Justice Department was properly investigating claims of election fraud. He debunked numerous election fraud claims, many of which the President would then go on to repeat publicly. And he made clear that President Trump was doing ‘‘a great, great disservice to the country’’ by pursuing them. 
After Attorney General Barr’s resignation, President Trump re-
quested that the acting leadership of the Department, Jeffrey Rosen and Richard Donoghue ‘‘just say the election was corrupt, and leave the rest to me and the Republican Congressmen.’’ In other words, just tell a small lie to put the facade of legitimacy on this lie, and the Republican Congressmen and I can distort and de-stroy and create doubt all ourselves. 
Between December 23rd and January 3rd, President Trump 
called or met with them nearly every day and was told repeatedly that the Department investigations showed no factual support for Trump’s fraud allegations. Mr. Rosen and Mr. Donoghue told him that the fraud claims were simply untrue. 
As Mr. Rosen and Mr. Donoghue continued to resist, President 
Trump then tried to install a loyalist named Jeffrey Clark to lead the Department as Acting Attorney General. 
On several occasions, Clark met with the President, apparently 
along with Representative Scott Perry, without authorization, promising to take the actions that Barr, Rosen, and Donoghue had refused to take. 
In particular, Mr. Clark intended to send a letter that he had 
drafted with the help of a political appointee that the White House installed at DOJ with just weeks left in the administration. 
Mr. Clark intended to send the letter to officials in numerous 
States, informing them, falsely of course, that the Department had identified ‘‘significant concerns’’ about the election result in their State and encouraging their State legislatures to come into special session to consider appointing Trump rather than Biden electors. 
Here is Acting Deputy Attorney General Donoghue describing his 
reaction to Mr. Clark’s proposed letter. 
Mr. D ONOGHUE [continuing]. And drafting letters without the knowledge of what 
the Department had actually done in terms of investigations, that he was being reckless. And I recall toward the end saying, ‘‘What you are proposing is nothing less than the United States Justice Department meddling in the outcome of a Presi-dential election.’’ 
Mr. K INZINGER . Knowing that existing Department leadership 
would not support his false election claims, President Trump of-fered Mr. Clark the job of Acting Attorney General. 
In a dramatic January 3rd meeting in the Oval Office, Rosen, 
Donoghue, White House Counsel Pat Cipollone, and White House lawyer Eric Herschmann strongly objected to the appointment of Jeffrey Clark as Acting Attorney General. 
Mr. Clark pleaded his case and offered to send the letter that he 
had drafted. The White House Counsel called the Clark letter a ‘‘murder-suicide pact.’’  12 
Numerous White House and Department of Justice lawyers all 
threatened to resign if Mr. Clark was appointed. Donald Trump would be leading a graveyard. It was only after the threat of mass resignations that President Trump rescinded his offer to Mr. Clark. 
Mr. Chairman, I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentleman yields back. 
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California, Mr. 
Aguilar, for an opening statement. 
Mr. A GUILAR . Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
Former President Trump’s multi-part plan didn’t stop with the 
States or with the Department of Justice. It touched nearly every component of our Federal system, ranging from the courts to Con-gress, to his own Vice President, Mike Pence. 
In the weeks before January 6th, Mr. Trump turned to the man 
who had served him loyally for 4 years. He embraced an illegal scheme proposed by John Eastman and others, who concocted an unfounded legal theory that the Vice President could reject Joe Biden’s electoral votes during the joint session. 
When Vice President Pence and many others, including Trump’s 
own lawyer John Eastman, told him, correctly, that this was un-lawful, former President Trump spearheaded an unprecedented pressure campaign to coerce him to do it anyway, ultimately culmi-nating in a dangerous threat to Mr. Pence’s life on January 6th. 
These are the Select Committee’s findings with respect to the 
pressure campaign against the Vice President. 
John Eastman admitted in advance of the 2020 election that 
Mike Pence could not lawfully refuse to count official electoral votes. But he nevertheless devised a meritless proposal that de-ployed a combination of bogus election fraud claims and the fake electoral ballots to say that Mike Pence, presiding over the joint session, could reject legitimate electoral votes for President-elect Biden. 
But, still, President Trump accepted and repeated Eastman’s the-
ory and used it to pressure the Vice President to take unlawful ac-tion. In multiple heated conversations, President Trump directly pressured Vice President Pence to adopt the Eastman theory and either reject the electors or send them back to the State legisla-tures. 
The Vice President consistently resisted and repeatedly told the 
President that he did not possess the authority to do what Presi-dent Trump directed. 
This culminated in an angry phone call on the morning of Janu-
ary 6th between President Trump and Vice President Pence during which the former President repeatedly berated Mr. Pence by curs-ing and leveling threats. 
White House staffer Nick Luna was one of the many witnesses 
who heard the call as it happened. Take a listen to Mr. Luna’s tes-timony. 
Mr. G EORGE . Did you hear any part of the phone call, even if just the end that 
the President was speaking from? 
Mr. L UNA. I did, yes. 
Mr. G EORGE . All right. And what did you hear? 
Mr. L UNA. So, as I was dropping off the note, my memory—I remember hearing 
the word ‘‘wimp.’’ Either he called him a wimp—I don’t remember if he said, ‘‘You are a wimp,’’ ‘‘You’ll be a wimp.’’ ‘‘Wimp’’ is the word I remember. And something  13 
to the effect—this is—the wording is wrong—‘‘I made the wrong decision 4 or 5 
years ago.’’ 
Mr. A GUILAR . In the face of the Vice President’s resistance, the 
former President and others exerted both private and public pres-sure to change his mind. In his speech on the Ellipse on the after-noon of January 6th, former President Trump told the crowd that Vice President Pence needed the ‘‘courage to do what he has to do.’’ 
Once the riot began, President Trump deliberately chose to issue 
a tweet attacking Mr. Pence, knowing that the crowd had already grown violent. 
Almost immediately thereafter, the crowd around the Capitol 
surged, and between 2:30 and 2:35 p.m. the Metropolitan Police line on the West Front of the Capitol broke. This was the first time in MPD history that a line like this had broken. 
Rioters at the Capitol were heard chanting ‘‘Hang Mike Pence’’ 
through the afternoon. 
As a result of this unrest, Vice President Pence was forced to flee 
to a secure location, where he actively coordinated with law en-forcement and other governmental officials to address the on-going violence. 
Mr. Chairman, I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentleman yields back. 
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Florida, Mrs. Mur-
phy, for an opening statement. 
Mrs. M URPHY . Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
Ultimately, President Trump did not succeed in bending State 
and Federal officials to his will. At every turn, State officials, the Department of Justice, Mike Pence, and many others stood up for the rule of law and resisted the President’s wishes. In that way, our American institutions held after the 2020 election. 
But that did not stop President Trump. Instead, he turned to his 
supporters, those who believed his lies about a stolen election. He summoned a crowd to the Nation’s capital on January 6th, hoping that they would pressure Congress to do what he could not do on his own. 
The Select Committee has made the following findings on this 
issue. 
Two years ago today, in the early morning hours of December 
19th, Donald Trump sent a tweet urging his supporters to travel to Washington for a protest on January 6th. ‘‘Be there, will be wild!’’ he tweeted. 
Between December 19th and January 6th, the President repeat-
edly encouraged his supporters to come to Washington. 
The President’s December 19th tweet galvanized domestic violent 
extremists, including members of the Oath Keepers, the Proud Boys, and organized militia groups. These individuals began orga-nizing to come to the capital in large numbers with the specific in-tent to use violence to disrupt the certification of the election dur-ing the joint session. 
Prior to January 6th, the FBI, Secret Service, U.S. Capitol Police, 
D.C. government, and other law enforcement agencies gathered substantial evidence suggesting the risk of violence at the Capitol during the joint session. These included warnings like the fol-lowing:  14 
‘‘Their plan is to literally kill people. Please, please take this tip 
seriously and investigate further.’’ 
‘‘President Trump supporters have proposed a movement to oc-
cupy Capitol Hill.’’ 
‘‘Alert regarding the VP being a dead man walking if he doesn’t 
do the right thing.’’ 
‘‘I saw several other alerts saying they will storm the Capitol if 
he doesn’t do the right thing.’’ 
In the days leading up to January 6th, President Trump’s advi-
sors explicitly told him that he should encourage his supporters to be peaceful that day. But he refused. 
One witness, Hope Hicks, provided the Committee with records 
of her text messages on January 6th. In one exchange with another staffer, he texted her, ‘‘Hey. I know you’re seeing this. But he,’’ re-ferring to President Trump, ‘‘really should tweet something about [b]eing NON-violent.’’ 
‘‘I’m not there,’’ Hicks replied. ‘‘I suggested it several times Mon-
day and Tuesday and he refused.’’ 
When Ms. Hicks came in to provide testimony to the Committee, 
we asked her about this exchange. Her explanation is that the ‘‘he’’ in this text wasn’t the President but, rather, it was Eric Herschmann. 
Take a listen to her testimony. 
Mr. W OOD. When you wrote, ‘‘I suggested it several times’’—and the ‘‘it’’ presum-
ably means that the President say something about being non-violent. You wrote, ‘‘I suggested it several times Monday and Tuesday and he refused.’’ Tell us what happened. 
Ms. H
ICKS. Sure. I didn’t speak to the President about this directly, but I commu-
nicated to people like Eric Herschmann that it was my view that it was important that the President put out some kind of message in advance of the event. 
Mr. W
OOD. And what was Mr. Herschmann’s response? 
Ms. H ICKS. Mr. Herschmann said that he had made the same, you know, rec-
ommendation directly to the President and that he had refused. 
Mr. W OOD. Just so I understand, Mr. Herschmann said that he had already rec-
ommended to the President that the President convey a message that people should be peaceful on January 6th, and the President had refused to do that? 
Ms. H
ICKS. Yes. 
Mrs. M URPHY . The public will be able to review this in the tran-
scripts and see the perspective Eric Herschmann gave before we took Hope Hicks’s testimony. 
Despite having knowledge of the threats of violence presented by 
the crowd gathered on January 6th, President Trump gave an in-cendiary speech, declaring without basis that the election had been stolen and encouraging his supporters to ‘‘fight like hell.’’ 
During the speech and immediately thereafter, President Trump 
stated his intention to travel to the Capitol with his supporters in an effort to influence the joint session. 
The Select Committee has developed evidence indicating that 
President Trump did, in fact, intend to go to the Capitol on the afternoon of January 6th and that he repeatedly expressed that in-tention during the afternoon and in the days prior. 
Mr. Chairman, I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentlewoman yields back. 
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Virginia, Mrs. 
Luria, for an opening statement. 
Mrs. L URIA . Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  15 
All of President Trump’s efforts came to a head on the afternoon 
of January 6th. Standing on the stage of the Ellipse, President Trump told tens of thousands of angry supporters that the election was stolen, that they had the power to change that if they marched to the Capitol, and that they wouldn’t have a country anymore if the Presidency was taken away him. He told them he would be there with them. Then, as the crowd descended on the Capitol, President Trump watched it on television. 
Despite pleas from his senior advisors, from lawmakers on the 
Hill, and from his own children, President Trump would not issue a public statement instructing his supporters to disperse and leave the Capitol. 
Mr. Trump’s failures span the period from 1:10 p.m., when his 
speech ended and he instructed his supporters to march to the Capitol, to 4:17 p.m., when he finally begrudgingly told his sup-porters to go home. 
For 187 minutes, he actively disregarded his constitutional obli-
gation to take care that the laws are faithfully executed. As we have established through months of investigation, that is because the mob wanted what President Trump wanted: to impede the peaceful transition of power. 
These are the Select Committee’s findings about President 
Trump’s dereliction of duty. 
From the outset of the violence and for several hours that fol-
lowed, people at the Capitol, people inside President Trump’s ad-ministration, elected officials of both parties, members of President Trump’s own family, and even Fox News commentators who were sympathetic to President Trump all tried to contact the White House to urge him to do one singular thing, the one thing that all of these people immediately understood was required: instruct his supporters to leave the Capitol. 
The President repeatedly refused pleas, as he watched the vio-
lence at the Capitol on television. 
During the day, the President never spoke with National Guard, 
the Department of Defense, the Department of Justice, or any law enforcement agency. At no point during the day, or any other, did he issue any order to deploy any law enforcement agency to assist. 
Multiple witnesses, including President Trump’s White House 
Counsel, testified to these facts. You heard White House employees who had been speaking directly with President Trump state that ‘‘he didn’t want anything done.’’ 
The President was making phone calls that afternoon, but they 
weren’t to law enforcement officials. Rather, President Trump con-tinued to call his lawyer, Rudy Giuliani. Both President Trump and Mr. Giuliani spoke with congressional leaders, even after the vio-lence had begun, to encourage them to continue delaying the ses-sion. 
Approximately 3 hours after being informed of the violence at the 
Capitol—hours during which, as our evidence has shown, Donald Trump sat in his dining room and watched the violence on tele-vision—the President released a video statement, in which he again repeated that the election was stolen, told his supporters at the Capitol that he loved them, and ultimately suggested that they disperse.  16 
This statement had an immediate impact on elements of the 
crowd, many of whom have testified that it led them to depart the Capitol. 
At 6:01 p.m., President Trump sent his last tweet of the day. He 
did not condemn the violence. Instead, he attempted to justify it. 
‘‘These are the things and events that happen when a sacred 
landslide election victory is so unceremoniously & viciously stripped away,’’ he wrote. ‘‘Remember this day forever!’’ 
There is no doubt that President Trump thought that the actions 
of the rioters were justified. In the days after January 6th, he spoke to several different advisors, and in those conversations, he minimized the seriousness of the attack. 
Here is new testimony from another one of the President’s senior 
advisors, Kellyanne Conway. 
Mr. G EORGE . You said you talked to the President the next day. Tell us about that 
conversation on the 7th. 
Ms. C ONWAY . Yes. I don’t think it was very long. I just said, that was just a ter-
rible day, I’m working on a long statement. I said it’s crazy. 
Mr. G EORGE . What did he say? 
Ms. C ONWAY . ‘‘No, these people are upset. They’re very upset.’’ 
Mrs. L URIA . In the days following the attack, President Trump 
also expressed a desire to pardon those involved in the attack. Since then, he has suggested that he will do so if he returns to the Oval Office. 
In summary, President Trump lit the flame, he poured gasoline 
on the fire, and sat by in the White House dining room for hours watching the fire burn. Today, he still continues to fan those flames. That was his extreme dereliction of duty. 
Mr. Chairman, I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentlewoman yields back. 
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Maryland, Mr. Raskin, 
for an opening statement. 
Mr. R ASKIN . Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
I want to thank you for your extraordinary leadership of this 
Committee. Generations to come will praise you and the Vice Chair for your unswerving devotion to the rule of law. 
Several months ago, you tasked several of our Members in a sub-
committee with bringing recommendations to the full Committee about potential referrals to the Department of Justice and other authorities based on evidence of criminal and civil offenses that has come to our attention over the course of our investigation. We are 
now prepared to share those recommendations today. 
Mr. Chairman, let me begin with some relevant background con-
siderations to our criminal referrals. The dangerous assault on American constitutional democracy that took place on January 6, 2021, consists of hundreds of individual criminal offenses. Most such crimes are already being prosecuted by the Department of Justice. 
We propose to the Committee advancing referrals where the 
gravity of the specific offense, the severity of its actual harm, and the centrality of the offender to the overall design of the unlawful scheme to overthrow the election compel us to speak. Ours is not a system of justice where foot soldiers go to jail and the master-minds and ring leaders get a free pass.  17 
Mr. Chairman, as you know, our Committee had the opportunity 
last spring to present much of our evidence to a Federal judge, something that distinguishes our investigation from any other con-gressional investigation I can recall. In the context of resolving evi-dentiary privilege issues related to the crime-fraud doctrine, in the Eastman case, U.S. District Court Judge David Carter examined just a small subset of our evidence to determine whether it showed the likely commission of a Federal offense. The judge concluded that both former President Donald Trump and John Eastman like-ly violated two Federal criminal statutes. This is the starting point for our analysis today. 
The first criminal statute we invoke for referral, therefore, is 
title 18, section 1512(c), which makes it unlawful for anyone to cor-ruptly obstruct, influence, or impede any official proceeding of the U.S. Government. We believe that the evidence described by my colleagues today and assembled throughout our hearings warrants a criminal referral of former President Donald J. Trump, John Eastman, and others for violations of this statute. The whole pur-pose and obvious effect of Trump’s scheme were to obstruct, influ-ence, and impede this official proceeding, the central moment for the lawful transfer of power in the United States. 
Second, we believe that there is more than sufficient evidence to 
refer former President Donald J. Trump, John Eastman, and others for violating title 18, section 371. This statute makes it a crime to conspire to defraud the United States, in other words, to make an agreement to impair, obstruct, or defeat the lawful functions of the U.S. Government by deceitful or dishonest means. 
Former President Trump did not engage in a plan to defraud the 
United States acting alone. He entered into agreements, formal and informal, with several other individuals who assisted him with his criminal objectives. Our report describes in detail the actions of numerous co-conspirators who agreed with and participated in Trump’s plan to impair, obstruct, and defeat the certification of President Biden’s electoral victory. 
That said, the subcommittee does not attempt to determine all 
of the potential participants in this conspiracy, as our under-standing of the role of many individuals may be incomplete even today because they refused to answer our questions. We trust that the Department of Justice will be able to form a far more complete picture through its own investigation. 
Third, we make a referral based on title 18, section 1001, which 
makes it unlawful to knowingly and willfully make materially false statements to the Federal Government. The evidence clearly sug-gests that President Trump conspired with others to submit slates of fake electors to Congress and the National Archives. We believe that this evidence we set forth in our report is more than sufficient for a criminal referral of former President Donald J. Trump and others in connection with this offense. 
As before, we don’t try to determine all of the participants in this 
conspiracy, many of whom refused to answer our questions while under oath. We trust that the Department of Justice will be able to form a more complete picture through its own investigation. 
The fourth and final statute we invoke for referral is title 18, sec-
tion 2383. The statute applies to anyone who incites, assists, or en- 18 
gages in insurrection against the United States of America and 
anyone who gives aid or comfort to an insurrection. 
An insurrection is a rebellion against the authority of the United 
States. It is a grave Federal offense anchored in the Constitution itself, which repeatedly opposes insurrections and domestic violence and indeed uses participation in insurrection by office holders as automatic grounds for disqualification from ever holding public of-fice again at the Federal or State level. 
Anyone who incites others to engage in rebelling, assists them in 
doing so, or gives aid and comfort to those engaged in insurrection is guilty of a Federal crime. The Committee believes that more than sufficient evidence exists for a criminal referral of former President Trump for assisting or aiding and comforting those at the Capitol who engaged in a violent attack on the United States. 
The Committee has developed significant evidence that President 
Trump intended to disrupt the peaceful transition of power under our Constitution. The President has an affirmative and primary constitutional duty to act to take care that the laws be faithfully executed. Nothing could be a greater betrayal of this duty than to assist in insurrection against the constitutional order. The com-plete factual basis for this referral is set forth in detail throughout our report. 
These are not the only statutes that are potentially relevant to 
President Trump’s conduct related to the 2020 election. Depending on evidence developed by the Department of Justice, the Presi-dent’s actions could certainly trigger other criminal violations. 
Nor are President Trump and his immediate team the only peo-
ple identified for referrals in our report. As part of our investiga-tion, we asked multiple Members of Congress to speak with us about issues critical to our understanding of this attack on the 2020 election and our system of constitutional democracy. None agreed to provide that essential information. 
As a result, we took the significant step of issuing them sub-
poenas based on the volume of information particular Members possessed about one or more parts of President Trump’s plans to overturn the election. None of the subpoenaed Members complied, and we are now referring four Members of Congress for appropriate sanction by the House Ethics Committee for failure to comply with lawful subpoenas. 
Mr. Chairman, we understand the gravity of each and every re-
ferral we are making today, just as we understand the magnitude of the crime against democracy that we describe in our report. But we have gone where the facts and the law lead us, and inescapably they lead us here. 
Accordingly, Mr. Chairman, in light of these facts, I ask unani-
mous consent that the Chairman be directed to transmit to the United States Department of Justice relevant Select Committee records in furtherance of these criminal referrals. 
Chairman T
HOMPSON . Without objection, so ordered. 
Mr. R ASKIN . Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I now yield back. 
Chairman T HOMPSON . The gentleman yields back. 
Pursuant to notice, I now call up the Select Committee’s final re-
port, pursuant to section 4(a) of House Resolution 503. 
The Clerk shall designate the report.  19 
* The Final Report of the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the 
United States Capitol is available at https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/GPO-J6-REPORT/ 
pdf/GPO-J6-REPORT.pdf . [The clerk designated the report.] 
Chairman T HOMPSON . Without objection, the report will be con-
sidered read and open to amendment at any point.* 
I now recognize the gentlewoman from Virginia, Mrs. Luria, for 
a motion. 
Mrs. L URIA . Mr. Chairman, I move that the Committee favorably 
report to the House the Select Committee’s final report, which in-cludes the Committee’s legislative recommendations and criminal referrals of Donald J. Trump and others, pursuant to section 4(a) of House Resolution 503. 
Chairman T
HOMPSON . The question is on the motion to favorably 
report to the House. 
Those in favor, say ‘‘aye.’’ Those opposed, ‘‘no.’’ In the opinion of the Chair, the ayes have it. Mrs. L
URIA . Mr. Chairman, I request a recorded vote. 
Chairman T HOMPSON . A recorded vote is requested. The clerk 
will call the roll. 
[The clerk called the roll, and the result was announced as fol-
lows:] 
Select Committee Rollcall No. 6 
Motion by Mrs. Luria to Favorably Report 
Agreed to: 9 ayes and 0 noes 
Members Vote 
Ms. Cheney, Vice Chair ............................................................................... Aye 
Ms. Lofgren .................................................................................................. Aye Mr. Schiff ..................................................................................................... Aye Mr. Aguilar ................................................................................................... Aye Mrs. Murphy (FL) ......................................................................................... Aye Mr. Raskin ................................................................................................... Aye Mrs. Luria .................................................................................................... Aye Mr. Kinzinger ................................................................................................ Aye Mr. Thompson (MS), Chairman ................................................................... Aye 
Chairman T HOMPSON . The motion is agreed to. 
Without objection, a motion to reconsider is laid on the table. Without objection, staff is authorized to make any necessary 
technical or conforming changes to the report to reflect the actions of the Committee. 
The Chair requests those in the hearing room remain seated 
until the Capitol Police have escorted Members from the room.  20 
There being no further business, without objection, the Select 
Committee stands adjourned. 
[Whereupon, at 2:16 p.m., the Committee was adjourned.] 
Æ 