U.S. GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 50–117 PDF 2022 BUSINESS MEETING TO CONSIDER A REPORT 
RECOMMENDING THAT THE HOUSE OF REP-
RESENTATIVES CITE PETER NAVARRO AND DANIEL SCAVINO, JR., FOR CRIMINAL CON-TEMPT OF CONGRESS 
MEETING 
OF THE  
SELECT COMMITTEE TO 
INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH 
ATTACK ON THE 
UNITED STATES CAPITOL 
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
ONE HUNDRED SEVENTEENTH CONGRESS 
SECOND SESSION 
MARCH 28, 2022 
Serial No. 117–4 
Printed for the use of the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th 
Attack on the United States Capitol 
Available via the World Wide Web: http://www.govinfo.gov  (II) SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON 
THE UNITED STATES CAPITOL 
BENNIE G. T HOMPSON , Mississippi, Chairman 
LIZCHENEY , Wyoming, Vice Chair 
ZOELOFGREN , California 
ADAM B. S CHIFF , California 
PETE AGUILAR , California 
STEPHANIE N. M URPHY , Florida 
JAMIE RASKIN , Maryland 
ELAINE G. L URIA , Virginia 
ADAM KINZINGER , Illinois  (III) COMMITTEE STAFF 
DAVID B. B UCKLEY , Staff Director 
KRISTIN L. A MERLING , Deputy Staff Director and Chief Counsel 
HOPE GOINS , Senior Counsel to the Chairman 
JOSEPH B. M AHER , Senior Counsel to the Vice Chair 
TIMOTHY J. H EAPHY , Chief Investigative Counsel 
JAMIE FLEET , Senior Advisor 
TIMOTHY R. M ULVEY , Communications Director 
CANDYCE PHOENIX , Senior Counsel and Senior Advisor 
JOHN F. W OOD, Senior Investigative Counsel and Of Counsel to the Vice Chair 
KATHERINE B. A BRAMS , Staff Associate 
TEMIDAYO AGANGA -WILLIAMS , Senior 
Investigative Counsel 
ALEJANDRA APECECHEA , Investigative Counsel 
LISAA. B IANCO , Director of Member Services 
and Security Manager 
JEROME P. B JELOPERA , Investigator 
BRYAN BONNER , Investigative Counsel 
RICHARD R. B RUNO , Senior Administrative 
Assistant 
MARCUS CHILDRESS , Investigative Counsel 
JOHN MARCUS CLARK , Security Director 
JACQUELINE N. C OLVETT , Digital Director 
HEATHER I. C ONNELLY , Professional Staff 
Member 
MEGHAN E. C ONROY , Investigator 
HEATHER L. C ROWELL , Printer Proofreader 
WILLIAM C. D ANVERS , Senior Researcher 
SOUMYALATHA DAYANANDA , Senior 
Investigative Counsel 
STEPHEN W. D EVINE, Senior Counsel 
LAWRENCE J. E AGLEBURGER , Professional 
Staff Member 
KEVIN S. E LLIKER , Investigative Counsel 
MARGARET E. E MAMZADEH , Staff Associate 
SADALLAH A. F ARAH , Professional Staff 
Member 
DANIEL A. G EORGE , Senior Investigative 
Counsel 
JACOB H. G LICK, Investigative Counsel 
AARON S. G REENE , Clerk 
MARC S. H ARRIS , Senior Investigative Counsel 
ALICE K. H AYES , Clerk 
QUINCY T. H ENDERSON , Staff Assistant 
JENNA HOPKINS , Professional Staff Member 
CAMISHA L. J OHNSON , Professional Staff 
Member THOMAS E. J OSCELYN , Senior Professional 
Staff Member 
REBECCA L. K NOOIHUIZEN , Financial 
Investigator 
CASEY E. L UCIER , Investigative Counsel 
DAMON M. M ARX, Professional Staff Member 
EVAN B. M AULDIN , Chief Clerk 
YONATAN L. M OSKOWITZ , Senior Counsel 
HANNAH G. M ULDAVIN , Deputy 
Communications Director 
JONATHAN D. M URRAY , Professional Staff 
Member 
JACOB A. N ELSON , Professional Staff Member 
ELIZABETH OBRAND , Staff Associate 
RAYMOND O’M ARA, Director of External 
Affairs 
ELYES OUECHTATI , Technology Partner 
ROBIN M. P EGUERO , Investigative Counsel 
SANDEEP A. P RASANNA , Investigative Counsel 
BARRY PUMP, Parliamentarian 
SEAN M. Q UINN , Investigative Counsel 
BRITTANY M. J. R ECORD , Senior Counsel 
DENVER RIGGLEMAN , Senior Technical Advisor 
JOSHUA D. R OSELMAN , Investigative Counsel 
JAMES N. S ASSO , Senior Investigative Counsel 
GRANT H. S AUNDERS , Professional Staff 
Member 
SAMANTHA O. S TILES , Chief Administrative 
Officer 
SEAN P. T ONOLLI , Senior Investigative 
Counsel 
DAVID A. W EINBERG , Senior Professional Staff 
Member 
AMANDA S. W ICK, Senior Investigative 
Counsel 
DARRIN L. W ILLIAMS , JR., Staff Assistant 
ZACHARY S. W OOD, Clerk  (IV) CONTRACTORS & CONSULTANTS 
RAWAA ALOBAIDI  
MELINDA ARONS  
STEVE BAKER  
ELIZABETH BISBEE  
DAVID CANADY  
JOHN COUGHLIN  
AARON DIETZEN  
GINAFERRISE  
ANGEL GOLDSBOROUGH  
JAMES GOLDSTON  
POLLY GRUBE  
L. C HRISTINE HEALEY  
DANNY HOLLADAY  
PERCY HOWARD  
DEAN JACKSON  
STEPHANIE J. J ONES  
HYATT MAMOUN  
MARY MARSH  
TODD MASON  
RYAN MAYERS  
JEFFMCBRIDE  
FRED MURAM  
ALEX NEWHOUSE  
JOHN NORTON  
ORLANDO PINDER  
OWEN PRATT  
DANPRYZGODA  
BRIAN SASSER  
WILLIAM SCHERER  
DRISS SEKKAT  
CHRIS STUART  
PRESTON SULLIVAN  
BRIAN YOUNG  
INNOVATIVE DRIVEN   (V) C O N T E N T S 
Page 
STATEMENTS OF MEMBERS OF CONGRESS  
The Honorable Bennie G. Thompson, a Representative in Congress From 
the State of Mississippi, and Chairman, Select Committee to Investigate 
the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol ...................................... 1 
The Honorable Liz Cheney, a Representative in Congress From the State 
of Wyoming, and Vice Chair, Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol ............................................................ 3 
The Honorable Zoe Lofgren, a Representative in Congress From the State 
of California .......................................................................................................... 6 
The Honorable Adam Kinzinger, a Representative in Congress From the 
State of Illinois ..................................................................................................... 7 
The Honorable Adam Schiff, a Representative in Congress From the State 
of California .......................................................................................................... 8 
The Honorable Pete Aguilar, a Representative in Congress From the State 
of California .......................................................................................................... 9 
The Honorable Stephanie Murphy, a Representative in Congress From the 
State of Florida ..................................................................................................... 10 
The Honorable Jamie Raskin, a Representative in Congress From the State 
of Maryland .......................................................................................................... 12 
The Honorable Elaine Luria, a Representative in Congress From the State 
of Virginia ............................................................................................................. 15 
C
OMMITTEE BUSINESS  
Report ....................................................................................................................... 6  
APPENDIX  
Full text, Report ...................................................................................................... 20   (1) BUSINESS MEETING TO CONSIDER A REPORT 
RECOMMENDING THAT THE HOUSE OF REP-
RESENTATIVES CITE PETER NAVARRO AND 
DANIEL SCAVINO, JR., FOR CRIMINAL CON-TEMPT OF CONGRESS 
Monday, March 28, 2022 
U.S. H OUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES , 
SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH 
ATTACK ON THE UNITED STATES CAPITOL , 
Washington, DC. 
The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 7:41 p.m., in room 
390, Cannon House Office Building, Hon. Bennie G. Thompson 
(Chairman of the Committee) presiding. 
Present: Representatives Thompson, Cheney, Lofgren, Schiff, 
Aguilar, Murphy, Raskin, Luria, and Kinzinger. 
Chairman T HOMPSON . A quorum being present, the Select Com-
mittee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol will be in order. 
The Select Committee is meeting this evening to consider a re-
port on a resolution recommending the House of Representatives find Peter K. Navarro and Daniel Scavino, Jr., in contempt of Con-gress for refusal to comply with subpoenas duly issued by the Se-lect Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol. 
Without objection, the Chair is authorized to declare the Com-
mittee in recess at any time. 
I will now recognize myself for an opening statement. This evening, the Select Committee is required to consider two 
more citations for criminal contempt of Congress for Daniel Scavino, Jr., and Peter Navarro. 
Before I get started, I do want to comment quickly on the ruling 
today in John Eastman’s lawsuit to stop the Select Committee from obtaining certain records. As the Vice Chair and I said in our state-ment earlier today, this ruling is a clear victory for the rule of law. I encourage people at home to read what Judge Carter wrote and consider his words very carefully. His warnings about the ongoing threat to American democracy should alarm every person in this country. 
I want to read a short excerpt from Judge Carter’s ruling: 
Dr. Eastman and President Trump launched a campaign to overturn a democratic election, an action unprecedented in American history. Their campaign was not con-fined to the ivory tower. It was a coup in search of a legal theory. The plan spurred  2 
violent attacks on the seat of our Nation’s Government, led to the death of several 
law enforcement officers, and deepened public distrust in our political process. 
More than a year after the attack on our Capitol, the public is 
still searching for accountability. I am proud to say that this Com-mittee is helping to lead that search for accountability. It is why we are here tonight. 
So let’s turn to Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro. These aren’t 
household names, and my colleagues will share some details about who they are and why they are so important to our investigation. In short, these two men played a key role in the ex-President’s ef-forts to overturn the results of the 2020 election. The Select Com-mittee subpoenaed them for records and testimony to learn more about their roles and what they knew. 
In Mr. Scavino’s case, he strung us along for months before mak-
ing it clear that he believes he is above the law. Mr. Navarro, de-spite sharing relevant details on TV and podcasts and in his own book, he also stonewalled us. 
The contempt report published last night gets into the weeds on 
this. But, broadly, Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro are making simi-lar excuses. They are claiming that the information we want from them is shielded by executive privilege. 
To remind everyone, executive privilege is the power of the Presi-
dent to make sure official, sensitive information and conversations stay private. It is a privilege used to protect the Presidency and our national security. It usually involves a President and that Presi-dent’s closest advisors, Cabinet Secretaries, top aides. 
In the lead-up to January 6th, Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro 
were both Government employees. They worked in the White House. They drew salaries paid by the taxpayers. They had con-versations with the ex-President. So now they are saying they won’t answer any of our questions because of executive privilege. 
There are a couple of big problems with their argument. First, 
generally speaking, executive privilege doesn’t belong to just any White House official. It belongs to the President. Here President Biden has been clear that executive privilege does not prevent co-operation with the Select Committee by either Mr. Scavino or Mr. Navarro. While the ex-President reportedly has raised privilege concerns when it comes to Mr. Scavino, in Mr. Navarro’s case, no-body has even tried to invoke privilege except Mr. Navarro himself. That is just not the way it works. Peter Navarro isn’t President. 
It is important to note that, even if a President has formally in-
voked executive privilege regarding testimony of a witness, which is not the case here, that witness has the obligation to sit down under oath and assert the privilege question by question. But these witnesses didn’t even bother to show up. 
Second, if the ex-President had a legitimate claim to executive 
privilege, this is a privilege that applies to things that happen in an official capacity. So, if Mr. Scavino or Mr. Navarro are claiming that all the information they have is protected by executive privi-lege, they are basically saying that everything they did, they did in their official roles, paid by taxpayers. 
As I said before, we want to talk to Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro 
about their roles in an attempt to overturn an American election. The American people didn’t pay their salaries to do that.  3 
Now, there are a lot of laws that set out what Government offi-
cials aren’t allowed to do when they are on the clock or using Gov-
ernment resources. It is important that taxpayer dollars don’t sup-port political activity. There are a few bright lines about every spe-cific situation. 
I can’t sit in my office on Capitol Hill and make fundraising calls. 
Every staff member has to take an ethics training every year to re-mind them what is in and out of bounds. I don’t mean to make light of it, but just for the record and for those watching at home, trying to overturn an election is out of bounds—way out of bounds. Yet Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro say they won’t talk about the causes of January 6th because they were White House officials at the time, engaged in official business, and so executive privilege stands in the way. They potentially played a part in an attack on American democracy, but they can ignore our investigation because they worked for the Government at the time. That is their argu-ment. 
They are not fooling anybody. They are obligated to comply with 
our investigation. They have refused do so, and that is a crime. 
Our investigation aims to give the American people a lot of an-
swers about a great many matters. But I think we will also leave you with some unanswered questions to consider for yourselves— questions about the sort of people who deserve the power and re-sponsibility of positions of public trust. 
For a great many of us, it means something profound when we 
raise our hands and swear an oath. We haven’t finished the work of our investigation, but I can say confidently that to many in-volved in the run-up to January 6th, an oath, statement of fidelity to our democracy, was nothing more to them than meaningless words. I fear what happens if those people are again given the reins of power. 
These men, Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro, are in contempt of 
Congress. I encourage my colleagues to support adoption of this re-port. I am confident the House will adopt a resolution citing them for this crime. I hope the Justice Department will move swiftly to hold them accountable. 
I am pleased now to recognize my friend, the gentlewoman from 
Wyoming, Ms. Cheney, for any remarks she cares to offer. 
Vice Chair C
HENEY . Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 
We are entering a critical stage of our investigation. We have 
now taken the testimony of hundreds of witnesses with knowledge of the events of January 6th, including more than a dozen former Trump White House staff members. 
We have learned that President Trump and his team were 
warned in advance and repeatedly that the efforts they undertook to overturn the 2020 election would violate the law and our Con-stitution. They were warned that January 6th could and likely would turn violent. They were told repeatedly by our State and Federal courts, by our Justice Department, and by agencies of our intelligence community that the allegations of wide-spread fraud sufficient to overturn the election were false and were unsupported by the evidence, and yet, despite all these specific warnings, Presi-dent Trump and his team moved willfully through multiple means to attempt to halt the peaceful transfer of power, to halt our con- 4 
stitutional process for counting votes, and to shatter the constitu-
tional bedrock of our great Nation. As a Federal judge concluded today, the illegality of President Trump’s plan for January 6th was ‘‘obvious.’’ 
Today, as the Chairman noted, we address two specific witnesses 
who have refused to appear for testimony. Mr. Scavino worked di-rectly with President Trump to spread President Trump’s false message that the election was stolen and to recruit Americans to come to Washington with the false promise that January 6th would be an opportunity to ‘‘take back their country.’’ This effort to de-ceive was widely effective and widely destructive. 
The Committee has many questions for Mr. Scavino about his po-
litical social media work for President Trump, including his inter-actions with an online forum called TheDonald, and with QAnon, a bizarre and dangerous cult. 
President Trump, working with Mr. Scavino, successfully spread 
distrust for our courts, which had repeatedly found no basis to overturn the election. Trump’s stolen election campaign succeeded in provoking the violence on January 6th. On this point, there is no doubt. The Committee has videos, interviews, and sworn state-ments from violent rioters demonstrating these facts. 
Mr. Navarro is also a key witness. He has written a book boast-
ing about his role in planning and coordinating the activity of Jan-uary 6th, and yet he does not have the courage to testify here. We have many questions for Mr. Navarro, including about his commu-nications with Roger Stone and Steve Bannon regarding the plan-ning for January 6th. 
As Judge Carter concluded today, ‘‘Based on the evidence, the 
court finds it more likely than not that President Trump corruptly attempted to obstruct the joint session of Congress on January 6th, 2021.’’ 
Our Committee will continue to litigate to obtain the testimony 
we need. We have already defeated President Trump’s effort to hide certain White House records behind the shield of executive privilege. As the court said in that case, ‘‘Under any of the tests advocated by former President Trump, the profound interests in disclosure advanced by President Biden and the January 6th Com-mittee far exceed his generalized concerns for executive branch con-fidentiality.’’ That same conclusion should apply to Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro. 
Let me pause for a moment on one specific legal point. Like Mr. 
Meadows, Mr. Navarro insists that he is above the law and is cat-egorically and absolutely immune from any congressional subpoena regarding January 6th. We are aware of no court anywhere in America that has ever agreed with this proposition. 
To the extent that Mr. Navarro and Mr. Meadows are attempting 
to rely upon memoranda from the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel, those memoranda explicitly do not apply here. In this context, Mr. Navarro was not acting as a White House aide ad-
vising the President on official matters of policy. He was acting as a Trump Campaign operative planning a political effort to obstruct or impede Congress’s Constitutional proceeding to count electoral votes.  5 
The Department of Justice is entrusted with the defense of our 
Constitution. Department leadership should not apply any doctrine 
of immunity that might block Congress from fully uncovering and addressing the causes of the January 6th attack. Congress is a sep-arate and coequal branch of Government. It must have the author-ity and the ability to protect its independence and safeguard the constitutional separation of powers. 
In the coming months, our Committee will convene a series of 
hearings. The American people will hear from our fellow citizens who demonstrated fidelity to our Constitution and the rule of law and who refused to bow to President Trump’s pressure. 
The Committee has heard from many of these individuals, in-
cluding Republicans appointed by President Trump to posts in the Department of Justice, Republicans who stood firm, who threat-ened to resign, and refused to participate in efforts to corrupt the Department with the stolen election lies that led to January 6th. 
We have heard from leading Republicans serving in State legisla-
tures and in State and local government who also stood firm, who resisted pressure from the former President, and did their constitu-tional duty. 
We have heard from Republicans who were serving in the Trump 
White House, including those who warned in advance that the President’s plans were unlawful and those who tried to intervene with the President to get him to halt the violence when it erupted on January 6th. 
In a time when many Republican Members of Congress have 
abandoned their obligation to our Constitution and are putting pol-itics above duty, each of the individuals I just mentioned has, by contrast, demonstrated a firm and unwavering commitment to this Nation and to our constitutional Republic. Each has done what is right, despite tremendous personal, political, and professional cost. Each is a model for the American people of the kind of public serv-ants this Nation needs: Men and women who know our institutions don’t defend themselves and who recognize the obligation that comes from holding positions of public trust. 
As we meet here today, Vladimir Putin continues his brutality 
against Ukraine, killing innocents, reminding us what happens when authoritarians rule. Each day we see footage of the unyielding courage of the Ukrainian people who are fighting and dying to defend their freedom. Their bravery reminds us that de-mocracy is fragile. Democracy only survives if citizens are willing to defend it. 
We live in the greatest constitutional Republic in history. No cit-
izen in our Republic can be a bystander. If we don’t stand for our freedom and our Republic, we will lose them. In his ruling today, Judge Carter put it this way: ‘‘If President Trump’s plan had worked, it would have permanently ended the peaceful transition of power, undermining American democracy and the Constitution. If the country does not commit to investigating and pursuing ac-
countability for those responsible, the court fears January 6th will repeat itself.’’ 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentlewoman yields back.  6 
* For the text of the report, see Appendix. Pursuant to notice, I now call up the Report on Resolution Rec-
ommending that the House of Representatives Find Peter K. 
Navarro and Daniel Scavino, Jr., in Contempt of Congress for Re-fusal to Comply with Subpoenas Duly Issued by the Select Com-mittee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol. The report was circulated in advance, and printed copies 
are available. 
The clerk shall designate the report. [The clerk designated the report.] Chairman T
HOMPSON . Without objection, the report will be con-
sidered as read and open to amendment at any point.* 
Chairman T HOMPSON . The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman 
from California, Ms. Lofgren. 
Ms. L OFGREN . Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
You know, it is a phrase we use all the time: No one is above 
the law. But it seems as if a few of the former President’s closest aides and allies seem to think they are, including Daniel Scavino, Jr. 
Now who is he? Mr. Scavino met Mr. Trump around 1992 and 
worked for him for many years: First at the Trump National Golf Club; then as director of social media for his 2016 Presidential campaign; then as White House deputy chief of staff for commu-nications and on his 2020 campaign; and, later, on efforts to re-verse the election results, which former Vice President, Mike Pence, has denounced as un-American. 
According to many published reports, Mr. Scavino worked closely 
with Mr. Trump to use social media to spread lies regarding non-existent election fraud and to inflame a violent, angry mob. For ex-ample, Mr. Trump’s Twitter account praised a false report alleging election fraud, tweeting, and here is a quote: ‘‘A great report. Sta-tistically impossible to have lost the 2020 election. Big protest in D.C. on January 6th. Be there. Will be wild.’’ 
Mr. Scavino also followed domestic violent extremist social 
media, and he did that on behalf of Mr. Trump. This Committee has reason to believe that doing so provided Mr. Scavino with ex-plicit advanced warnings of the violence that was to occur on Janu-ary 6th. Now, Mr. Scavino may have shared these warnings of vio-lence with Mr. Trump before January 6th. He reportedly attended several meetings with Mr. Trump and others regarding reversing President Biden’s legitimate victory. 
Mr. Scavino was also with Mr. Trump during the Capitol attack 
while Mr. Trump failed to immediately try to stop it, despite ur-gent bipartisan calls for him do so. 
Republican Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell rightly said 
that the public needs to know everything about what caused and 
occurred on January 6th. To inform both the American people and legislative reform proposals, this Committee needs to speak with Mr. Scavino. He has to fulfill his legal and his moral obligation to provide testimony and documents, or he should face the con-sequences. That is why we are taking this action today.  7 
In the United States of America, no one is above the law. This 
Committee is doing its job. The Department of Justice needs to do 
theirs. 
I yield back, Mr. Chairman. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentlewoman yields back. 
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Illinois, Mr. Kinzinger. Mr. K
INZINGER . Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
As the Vice Chair mentioned with Ukraine, it reminds us that 
democracies aren’t defined by bad days or bad things that happen, but how they defend it and how they come back from that. That is the importance of this Committee. 
So Dan Scavino met Donald Trump when he was 16 years old. 
He became a long-time Trump employee and remains a true Trump loyalist. In the Trump administration, Dan Scavino served as direc-tor of social media and, for its final 2 years, as deputy chief of staff of communications. As the Select Committee report notes, Dan Scavino was with then-President Trump on January 5th and 6th. He spoke with President Trump by phone several times on January 6th and was with the President when many urged him to help stop the violence at the Capitol. He was always, at all relevant times, a Trump and White House insider. 
Social media as a means of monitoring and shaping trends was 
Dan Scavino’s core business. Reports tell us that Dan Scavino and his team monitored extremist social media sites, monitored trends on social media, and used extremist social media sites to shape public perceptions. There is, in short, a great deal of highly impor-tant information that Dan Scavino has that the Select Committee needs to know. 
I want to focus on one aspect of that: What Dan Scavino could 
tell us about what then-President Trump thought was likely to happen on January 6th. Did the President know that the rally could turn violent, that his rhetoric on the Ellipse could send an angry mob to storm the Capitol? When Trump noted on the evening of January 5th that he had a fired-up crowd, did he know that they might take it literally when the next morning he told them to ‘‘fight hard’’? 
Dan Scavino was there and could tell us a lot about that. We 
need to hear from him. In refusing to talk to us, he is stiff-arming the American people, and he is hiding the truth. It is unlawful, and there is no excuse. 
Then-President Trump asserted that he generally did his own 
tweets, but he acknowledged that, on occasion, Scavino helped to shape them. We know that he often composed social media posts and discussed their language with Trump. 
With that in mind, let’s take a closer look. On December 19, 2020, Trump retweeted a video that ended by 
urging viewers to ‘‘fight for Trump.’’ And here it is. 
January 6th was then just 2
1⁄2weeks off. Dan Scavino can tell 
us something useful about why Donald Trump retweeted that par-ticular message. 
President Trump also retweeted a video titled, ‘‘How to Steal an 
Election.’’ Among other things, it argued that COVID–19 was cre-ated to ensure that Trump would lose the election. And here is that one.  8 
QAnon had already retweeted that one by the time Trump did. 
We would like to hear what President Trump’s director of social 
media has to say about that. 
Now, what did Trump’s extremist followers on TheDonald and 
other hard-right social media sites make of all that, of President Trump urging them to join in a wild protest on January 6th? Some of his followers on TheDonald fringe site took it as marching or-ders. Dan Scavino had every reason to know that they would be violent. Dan Scavino was well aware of what his boss wanted and to the extremist violent users that used the site like TheDonald. 
Dan Scavino himself sent out a video that a user on the same 
site understood to be ‘‘literal war drums.’’ 
President Trump had by then been President for a full 4 years 
with Dan Scavino at his side. He—they—knew that the January 6th crowd could turn violent. They knew exactly what they were doing. The Select Committee needs to hear directly from Dan Scavino about his and President Trump’s role in inciting violence that day. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentleman yields back. 
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California, Mr. Schiff. Mr. S
CHIFF . Thank you to our Chairman and Vice Chair for con-
vening us today. 
Our Committee has a singular purpose: To ensure that our Na-
tion never again experiences the violence of January 6th, that there is never again an effort to overturn a Presidential election or to interfere with a peaceful transfer of power. That is our object. Every single witness called before this panel should cooperate. It is a patriotic duty to help Congress and the American people un-derstand how the tragedy of January 6th came about, and more than a duty, it is necessity when served with a lawful subpoena to appear, which is why we are here today. 
Peter Navarro and Dan Scavino have refused to comply with a 
duly authorized subpoena, offering up again and again spurious and unjustifiable excuses. In Mr. Scavino’s case, he has clearly rel-evant testimony for our Committee. Scavino was intimately in-volved in former President Trump’s social media content and strat-egy and served as deputy chief of staff for communications while also actively promoting Trump’s campaign. 
The Select Committee believes that Scavino was with Trump on 
January 5th and 6th, including during a period when the Capitol was under attack; that he was party to conversations with Trump about challenging, disrupting, or impeding the congressional pro-ceedings to certify the election results; and that he may have also had prior knowledge regarding the likelihood of violence on Janu-ary 6th due to his monitoring of social media sites where such vio-lence was discussed and predicted. 
Specifically, through press reporting, we are aware that, on Jan-
uary 6th, Mr. Scavino was advising Trump throughout the day, po-tentially even directly sending messages from the White House and potentially playing a role in the video message Trump released hours after rioters breached the Capitol. 
It has also been reported that Mr. Scavino was present during 
a January 5th strategy session with Trump as they schemed on  9 
how they could convince congressional Republicans to successfully 
object to the certification of the election and thus overturn it. 
This is why Mr. Scavino has an obligation to appear before us. 
Nevertheless, Mr. Scavino claims to be protected under executive privilege, but that claim isn’t grounded in the law or reality. Execu-tive privilege doesn’t allow for a person to simply refuse to appear before a congressional committee. It doesn’t apply to Scavino’s cam-paign activities on behalf of the former President. It doesn’t apply to a potentially unlawful scheme to obstruct Congress. It doesn’t apply to his official duties when, as here, the current President of the United States asserts it is not in the public interest to do so. 
I have one more thing to add tonight. The Department of Justice 
has a duty to act on this referral and others we have sent. Without enforcement of congressional subpoenas, there is no oversight. Without oversight, no accountability, not for the former President or any other President, past, present, or future. Without enforce-ment of its lawful process, Congress ceases to be a coequal branch of Government, and the balance of power would be forever altered to the lasting detriment of the American people. 
Finally, I want to return to Judge Carter’s remarkable opinion, 
finding that a former President of the United States may have committed a crime and fraud against the United States. The judge said that Dr. Eastman and President Trump launched a campaign to overturn a democratic election, an action unprecedented in American history. Their campaign was not confined to the ivory tower; it was a coup in search of a legal theory. The plan spurred violent attacks on the seat of our Nation’s Government, led to the deaths of several law enforcement officers, and deepened public dis-trust in our political process. 
As the Vice Chair pointed out, he also said: ‘‘If the country does 
not commit to investigating and pursuing accountability for those responsible, the court fears January 6th will repeat itself.’’ 
That responsibility to investigate and pursue accountability ex-
tends to those who hold the highest office in the land or those who hold no office at all. If no one is above the law, then no one must be above the law. We are upholding our responsibility; the Depart-ment of Justice must do the same. 
I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentleman yields back. 
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California, Mr. 
Aguilar. 
Mr. A GUILAR . Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Madam Vice Chair, and 
distinguished colleagues. 
Our Committee is dedicated to getting to the truth and to taking 
any steps necessary to do so. When material witnesses fail to com-ply with lawful subpoenas, we have no choice but to refer them for contempt of Congress. 
Peter Navarro’s testimony is integral to our investigation. De-
spite the fact that he has given multiple television interviews re-garding our subpoena, he has failed to comply with our investiga-tion in any way. Mr. Navarro has publicly stated that he is pro-tected by executive privilege but has never sought counsel, as oth-ers have. He has never filed any case seeking relief from his re-sponsibilities to comply with our subpoena.  10 
An economist with a Ph.D. from Harvard, Mr. Navarro ran un-
successfully for office in my home State of California 5 times. He 
wrote several books on economics and trade, many of which focused on China. He was brought on by the Trump Campaign in 2016 to advise the former President on economic and trade issues. He was such an important advisor to the former President that an office in the White House was created just for him to oversee it: The White House National Trade Council. He was the architect of the Presi-dent’s trade policies, which, according to a study commissioned by the U.S.-China Business Council, ‘‘hurt the U.S. economy and failed to achieve major policy goals.’’ 
Now, Mr. Chairman, I think the American people might be won-
dering why our Committee would need to speak with a trade offi-cial about the attempts to overturn the 2020 election. As the Vice Chair noted, that is because Mr. Navarro held that title as the di-rector of the White House National Trade Council, but he devoted much of his time to White House political efforts outside the scope of his official duties. 
In fact, the American people are likely to know Mr. Navarro sole-
ly in his political capacity. He was so active in the 2020 reelection campaign that the United States Special Counsel ruled in 2020 that Mr. Navarro repeatedly violated the Hatch Act. That is be-cause the former President trusted Mr. Navarro as a spokesman and confidant. He was so intimately involved with these efforts that Mr. Navarro allegedly led a call on January 2nd with a group of State legislators about the effort to convince Vice President Pence to delay the election certification for 10 days. A text handed over to this Committee by Mr. Meadows from a member of the press read, and I quote: ‘‘Mark, I am reaching out because I have details on the call that Navarro helped convene yesterday with leg-islators as part of his efforts to get Pence to delay certification of the election for 10 days, including that the President participated. Were you on the call when the President spoke?’’ 
Among the many questions we have for Mr. Navarro, we need to 
hear from him about this conversation and about that phone call. We need to hear from him about his other calls with Steve Bannon, whom the House has already held in contempt, that took place both during and after the attack on the U.S. Capitol. 
We know that Mr. Navarro believes he and Mr. Bannon came up 
with the strategy for overturning the election because he details it in his book, which I know my colleague from Florida will discuss in greater detail. This is as clear a case for contempt as we are likely to see, Mr. Chairman. 
I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentleman yields back. 
The Chair now recognizes the gentlewoman from Florida, Mrs. 
Murphy. 
Mrs. M URPHY . Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
I will just pick up where my colleague, Mr. Aguilar, left off. Over a month and a half ago, Mr. Navarro was subpoenaed by 
this Committee. We sought documents and testimony regarding his efforts to discredit the election and to prevent the results from being certified. This information is central to our Committee’s in-quiry.  11 
Mr. Navarro refused to comply, making a cursory claim of execu-
tive privilege. There are many reasons why this blanket assertion 
of executive privilege lacks merit, as a matter of law and as a mat-ter of common sense. Most fundamentally, neither the incumbent nor the former President has asserted privilege regarding Mr. Navarro’s testimony or document production to the Committee. Mr. Navarro has no unilateral authority to assert privilege himself. 
Beyond that foundational flaw in Mr. Navarro’s privilege claim, 
since the election, he has spoken and written widely about the pre-cise subjects that are the focus of our subpoena. Clearly Mr. Navarro is eager tell his story as he sees it so long as he can do so on his own terms. For example, in 2020 and in 2021, Mr. Navarro published a three-part report on his website called ‘‘The Navarro Report.’’ In it he makes allegations about election fraud that have been debunked. Furthermore, in November 2021, Mr. Navarro published a book called ‘‘In Trump Time.’’ He describes in detail actions he took to change the outcome of the election. For in-stance, Mr. Navarro claims credit for working with Steve Bannon to concoct a scheme they called the ‘‘Green Bay Sweep.’’ The core of this plan was to encourage Vice President Pence to delay certifi-cation of the electoral college votes on January 6th and to send the 
election back to State legislators. 
In his book, Mr. Navarro also writes that he called Attorney Gen-
eral William Barr asking the Department of Justice to support President Trump’s legal efforts to challenge the election results, which Barr declined to do. Notably, Mr. Navarro acknowledges that he kept a journal detailing this episode and other post-election ac-tions that he took. 
Finally, earlier this year, at the same time he was refusing to 
comply with our subpoena, Mr. Navarro made multiple media ap-pearances, during which he discussed his various roles in the events that culminated in the January 6th attack. I would like to play a video, a media clip, right now. 
Can you please cue the clip? 
Mr. N AVARRO . It’s funny about this interview, which is kind-of interesting. It’s 
like, I have so much knowledge to share with you about what I was involved in and what I know. 
***  
Mr. M
ELBER . Given that you have told me that you have a plan that you pushed 
to delay or deal with the certification...
Mr. N AVARRO . Yes. 
Mr. M ELBER [continuing]...You told me 100 Members back it, and you have 
said in public Trump was on board, if you say all those things out here, why risk a legal battle or going to jail to refuse to discuss them with the Committee under oath? 
Mr. N
AVARRO . Because I have a loyalty to the Constitution and a loyalty to the 
President. 
The President has invoked executive privilege in this matter. It’s not my authority 
to revoke that privilege. 
***  
Mr. M ELBER . You say it’s not your privilege to waive. 
Mr. N AVARRO . That’s the law. No, it’s the law. 
Mr. M ELBER [continuing]. But let’s look at how often you have waived it. Let’s 
look some of the news you have made on these topics. 
Take a look.  12 
[Begin video clip.] 
Ms. R EID. Former Trump advisor Peter Navarro is spilling the beans. 
Mr. N AVARRO . We had over 100 Congressmen and Senators on Capitol Hill ready 
to implement the sweep. 
Mr. B ANNON . Peter Navarro. 
Mr. N AVARRO . Right? The boss tells Pence to take my friggin’ call. 
VOICE . Peter Navarro tells ‘‘Rolling Stone’’...
Mr. N AVARRO . It was about sending the votes back. 
Mr. N AVARRO . Most or all of those States would decertify the election. 
[End video clip.] Mr. M
ELBER . How do you expect people to take seriously your claim this is secret 
and privileged, when you have been out there talking about it? 
And when you and Bannon said the Committee’s dog wouldn’t bark—they were 
afraid of you and the report—it seems now, Peter, like the dog has barked. 
Mrs. M URPHY . Thank you. 
He has so much knowledge to share with the journalists, but he 
refuses to share that knowledge in response to a lawful subpoena. 
Evidently, Mr. Navarro is only concerned with executive privilege with keeping certain matters confidential when it is convenient for him. 
Unfortunately for him and fortunately for the American public, 
that is not how the law works. No President, incumbent or former, has claimed privilege regarding Mr. Navarro’s testimony and docu-ments. In any event, his claim of executive privilege is severely un-dermined, if not foreclosed altogether, by his extensive public dis-closures on the same issues the Committee seeks to question him about under oath. As a result of his actions, Mr. Navarro is clearly in contempt of Congress and should be referred to the Department of Justice for criminal prosecution. 
I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentlewoman yields back. 
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Maryland, Mr. Raskin. Mr. R
ASKIN . Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
You know, my hero Tom Paine said: The cause of America is the 
cause of mankind. 
Today democracy is under siege all over the world, and just as 
we are working to defend and fortify democracy abroad in Ukraine 
and other places, we are working to defend and fortify democracy here at home. 
The assault on American democracy that exploded on January 
the 6th, Mr. Chairman, had two coordinated elements that we have been able to see. One was a violent insurrection from the outside, infused by propaganda and disinformation and led by domestic vio-lent extremist groups, like the Oath Keepers, the Proud Boys, the Three Percenters, the QAnon networks, the militia groups. 
But the other component was a secret campaign on the inside to 
replace our constitutional process governing Presidential elections with a tissue of lies and counterfeit processes that make a mockery of American democracy. This is what the political scientists call a self-coup. It is not a coup against a President, like most coups, but it is a coup organized by the President against the constitutional framework itself. 
The two contempt citations we vote on tonight will go to persons 
who have critical information about both components of this as-sault on America and the coordination between them.  13 
Peter Navarro worked to overthrow the election by nullifying 79 
electoral college votes cast by tens of millions of Americans who 
live in Arizona, Georgia, Pennsylvania, Michigan, New Mexico, and Wisconsin. 
Had his so-called ‘‘Green Bay Sweep,’’ which by the way is an in-
sult to Green Bay Packers all over the country, but had his so- called ‘‘Green Bay Sweep’’ not been blocked by the bravery of our police officers, 150 of whom were injured, wounded, or hospitalized by insurrectionary violence, and by Vice President Pence’s refusal to abandon his constitutional duties, this attempted coup would have, ‘‘permanently ended the peaceful transition of power in America,’’ threatening the survival of democracy and the Constitu-tion as United States District Judge David Carter put it so power-fully in his remarkable decision today rejecting the claims of Navarro’s comrade in these efforts, John Eastman. 
We subpoenaed Navarro to produce documents by February the 
23rd, 2022, and to appear for a deposition on March 2nd. He has produced no documents and failed to appear for his scheduled depo-sition. 
Peter Navarro must be held in criminal contempt of Congress 
and the American people because he is acting with criminal con-tempt for the Congress and the American people. The American people want to know what sets him above the law. The Supreme Court said in 1950 in U.S. v. Bryant that a subpoena creates a pub-
lic duty which every person within the jurisdiction of the Govern-ment is bound to perform when properly summoned. 
In 2020, the Supreme Court emphasized that it is the duty of all 
citizens to cooperate with a subpoena. But Navarro invokes the words ‘‘executive privilege,’’ repeats the phrase over and over again: It is not my privilege to waive. 
He thinks he has found a magic wand to nullify the powers of 
the U.S. Congress, just like he thinks he has found a magic wand to nullify the powers of the States to cast their own electoral col-lege votes. 
Now, Navarro’s statement that the executive privilege is, ‘‘not his 
to waive’’ is in fact accurate, but if the executive privilege is not Navarro’s to waive, then neither, for the exact same reason and by definition, is it his to assert in the first place. 
The Supreme Court has been clear that the executive privilege 
belongs to the President of the United States, and on February 28th, 2022, the White House counsel notified Mr. Navarro that President Biden determined that assertion of executive privilege is not justified with respect to Navarro’s effort to cover up the evi-dence of his participation in this assault on America’s constitu-tional democracy. 
So Navarro then appears to fall back on the vague assertion that 
the executive privilege here belongs to former President Trump, which is not only dubious but entirely irrelevant because our Com-mittee has not been given any attempted invocation of executive privilege by Donald Trump, either formally or informally, indirectly by Peter Navarro or directly by Donald Trump. Nothing. There is plainly no assertion of executive privilege here either by the actual President or by any former President. Even if there were, even if President Biden tried to assert executive privilege for Peter  14 
Navarro, it would fail immediately because the privilege does not 
apply to private political business, much less to criminal activity, like conducting coups or insurrections against the Government. The privilege applies only to professional speech on Government policy by advisors rendering confidential advice on matters within their domain of professional responsibility. 
Now, Peter Navarro was the White House trade advisor. It was 
not within his job description to overthrow Presidential elections, coerce Vice Presidents into abandoning their constitutional respon-sibilities, or impose counterfeit regimes in place of the U.S. Con-stitution. 
When Navarro was plotting to overthrow the election by can-
celing out the electoral college votes of 49 million Americans in six States to seize the Presidency for his chosen candidate for 4 years, he was not rendering advice on trade policy. 
We are not seeking documents or testimony from Navarro related 
to his official duties as trade advisor. Indeed, on the press call to announce the release of his outlandish and cartoonish three-part report on outright fraud in the 2020 election on his personal website, Navarro acknowledged publicly that he was writing as a private citizen and not as a Federal Government official. 
So please spare us the nonsense talk about executive privilege, 
rejected now by every court that has looked at it. This is America, and there is no executive privilege here for Presidents, much less trade advisors, to plot coups and organize insurrections against the people’s Government and the people’s Constitution and then to cover up the evidence of their crimes. The courts aren’t buying it, and neither are we. 
Navarro insists only on adding insult to his contempt. More than 
a year after Biden beat Trump by more than 7 million votes, Navarro continues to spread the big lie that Trump won. He says, ‘‘Beyond any shadow of a doubt, this election was stolen.’’ He brags about his work with Steve Bannon to apply pressure on Vice Presi-dent Pence to do the wrong thing. He tells the complete story in his book ‘‘In Trump Time’’ and in his three-part report, which was made up of titles like ‘‘The Immaculate Deception’’ and ‘‘The Art of the Steal,’’ of how they tried to get Pence to abandon his con-stitutional duties and force the contest into a contingent Presi-dential election under the 12th Amendment in the House of Rep-resentatives. He goes on Steve Bannon’s podcast, and he makes noises about the next insurrection. A year after the election was over, he said: If they want an insurrection, they keep pushing this, they are going to push the American people over the freaking edge. 
Mr. Chairman, Madam Vice Chair, the American people opposed 
the January 6th insurrection, and the American people oppose fu-ture insurrections and coups against our Government. We are fighting to defend the institutions and values of democracy at home against coup plotters and insurrectionists, and we are supporting other democracies around the world under siege by autocrats and 
kleptocrats, bullies and despots. We are on the side of the people of Ukraine against Vladimir Putin, who is not a genius but a mass murderer. We stand strong on the side of democracy, freedom, the Constitution, and the rule of law against people who smashed our  15 
police officers in the face with Confederate battle flags and tried to 
cancel out the results of our Presidential election. 
These two men are in contempt of Congress, and we must cite 
them both for their brazen disregard for their duties and for our laws and institutions. 
I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentleman yields back. 
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Virginia, Mrs. 
Luria. 
Mrs. L URIA . Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
I want to thank my colleagues on the Committee for their com-
mitment to providing a full and factual accounting of everything that led to January 6th, the events of that day, and to ensure that such an attack on our Republic never happens again. 
Mr. Chair, I served in the Navy for 20 years, and when you talk 
to people in the military, that is what they say; they say they serve in the military, they serve the American people. Today, I continue to serve, as we all do on this Committee. 
When Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro entered the administration, 
they agreed to serve the American people. The President, who serves the American people, has a unique duty under the Constitu-tion to take care that the laws be faithfully executed. Those that serve under the President, especially those closest to him in the ad-ministration, are integral to performing that duty to take care that the laws are faithfully executed, not to undermine those laws. 
Congress has a constitutional duty to investigate, and we have 
a duty to the American people to investigate the violent attack on our Capitol that attempted to prevent the peaceful transition of power. 
Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro have a duty to respond to the sub-
poenas of this Committee. However, they have decided apparently that they are above the law. Fifty years ago this year, a small group of people in the Nixon administration also decided they were above the law. They engineered a cover-up to hold on to political power. They were almost successful, but it took Congress, the Sen-ate to get to the truth, a truth that the American people deserved. 
This Committee has conducted more than 800 voluntary deposi-
tions and interviews, with more scheduled, including witnesses who worked in the previous administration. The Committee has re-ceived nearly 90,000 documents pertaining to January 6th. We fol-lowed up on more than 435 tips received through the Committee’s tip line. Hundreds of witnesses have voluntarily come forward and cooperated with our investigation. However, Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro refuse to answer this constitutional duty. 
Why are they special? Why is it, when we get closer and closer 
to the former President, his inner circle, those nearest to the Presi-dent, why are those the ones who refuse to tell the American peo-ple what they know? What is it they are covering up? 
Now Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro have attempted to obstruct 
the pursuit of justice and to stonewall this Committee’s work and 
conceal the truth, despite both publicly acknowledging their roles in promoting election fraud conspiracies and counseling the former President on changing the outcome of the election.  16 
What, Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro, are you covering up? Who 
are you covering for? 
We have been through this process before. 
What, Mr. Meadows, are you covering up? Who are you covering 
for? 
When given the opportunity to tell the truth about the attack on 
January 6th, both Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro continue to put loyalty to Donald Trump before the Constitution and the American people. 
Tonight, I will vote to hold Mr. Scavino and Mr. Navarro ac-
countable for their actions and recommend that the House of Rep-resentatives cite both of them for contempt of Congress. The De-partment of Justice must act swiftly. I will echo what my col-leagues have already said, but more bluntly: Attorney General Gar-land, do your job so that we can do ours. 
I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentlewoman yields back. 
If there is no further debate, I now recognize the gentlewoman 
from Wyoming, Ms. Cheney, for a motion. 
Vice Chair C HENEY . Mr. Chairman, I move that the Committee 
favorably report to the House the Committee’s Report on a Resolu-
tion Recommending that the House of Representatives Find Peter K. Navarro and Daniel Scavino, Jr., in Contempt of Congress for Re-fusal to Comply with Subpoenas Duly Issued by the Select Com-mittee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol. 
Chairman T
HOMPSON . The question is on the motion to favorably 
report to the House. 
Those in favor, say ‘‘aye.’’ Those opposed, say ‘‘no.’’ In the opinion of the Chair, the ayes have it. Vice Chair C
HENEY . Mr. Chairman, I request a recorded vote. 
Chairman T HOMPSON . A recorded vote is requested. 
The clerk will call the roll. [The clerk called the roll, and the result was announced as fol-
lows:] 
Select Committee Rollcall No. 4 
Motion by Ms. Cheney to Favorably Report 
Agreed to: 9 ayes to 0 noes 
Members Vote 
Ms. Cheney, Vice Chair ............................................................................... Aye 
Ms. Lofgren .................................................................................................. Aye Mr. Schiff ..................................................................................................... Aye Mr. Aguilar ................................................................................................... Aye Mrs. Murphy (FL) ......................................................................................... Aye Mr. Raskin ................................................................................................... Aye 
Mrs. Luria .................................................................................................... Aye Mr. Kinzinger ................................................................................................ Aye  17 
Select Committee Rollcall No. 4—Continued 
Motion by Ms. Cheney to Favorably Report 
Agreed to: 9 ayes to 0 noes 
Members Vote 
Mr. Thompson (MS), Chairman ................................................................... Aye 
Chairman T HOMPSON . The motion is agree to. 
The Vice Chair is recognized. 
Vice Chair C HENEY . Mr. Chairman, pursuant to clause 2(l) of 
rule XI, I request that Members have 2 calendar days in which to file with the clerk of the Committee supplemental or additional views on the measure ordered reported by the Committee tonight. 
Chairman T
HOMPSON . So ordered. 
Without objection, staff is authorized to make any necessary 
technical or conforming changes to the report to reflect the actions of the Committee. 
There being no further business, without objection, the Select 
Committee stands adjourned. 
[Whereupon, at 8:40 p.m., the Committee was adjourned.]   (19) A P P E N D I X  20 
REPORT ON A RESOLUTION RECOMMENDING THAT THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES  
FINDPETER K. N AVARRO AND DANIEL SCAVINO , JR., INCONTEMPT OF CONGRESS  
FOR REFUSAL TO COMPLY WITH SUBPOENAS DULY ISSUED BY THE SELECT COM-
MITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6THATTACK ON THE UNITED STATES CAP-
ITOL 
 21 
 22 
 23 
 24 
 25 
 26 
 27 
 28 
 29 
 30 
 31 
 32 
 33 
 34 
 35 
 36 
 37 
 38 
 39 
 40 
 41 
 42 
 43 
 44 
 45 
 46 
 47 
 48 
 49 
 50 
 51 
 52 
 53 
 54 
APPENDIX I  55 
EXHIBIT 1  56 
 57 
 58 
 59 
 60 
 61 
 62 
 63 
 64 
 65 
 66 
 67 
 68 
 69 
EXHIBIT 2  70 
 71 
EXHIBIT 3  72 
 73 
EXHIBIT 4  74 
 75 
 76 
EXHIBIT 5  77 
 78 
EXHIBIT 6  79 
 80 
EXHIBIT 7  81 
 82 
 83 
EXHIBIT 8  84 
 85 
 86 
 87 
 88 
 89 
 90 
APPENDIX II  91 
EXHIBIT 1  92 
 93 
 94 
 95 
 96 
 97 
 98 
EXHIBIT 2  99 
 100 
 101 
 102 
 103 
 104 
 105 
 106 
 107 
 108 
 109 
 110 
 111 
EXHIBIT 3  112 
 113 
 114 
 115 
 116 
 117 
EXHIBIT 4  118 
 119 
 120 
 121 
 122 
 123 
 124 
EXHIBIT 5  125 
 126 
EXHIBIT 6  127 
 128 
 129 
 130 
 131 
 132 
 133 
 134 
 135 
 136 
 137 
 138 
 139 
 140 
EXHIBIT 7  141 
 142 
 143 
 144 
 145 
 146 
EXHIBIT 8  147 
 148 
 149 
 150 
 151 
 152 
EXHIBIT 9  153 
 154 
 155 
 156 
EXHIBIT 10  157 
 158 
 159 
 160 
 161 
 162 
 163 
EXHIBIT 11  164 
 165 
 166 
 167 
 168 
 169 
 170 
 171 
 172 
 173 
 174 
 175 
 176 
 177 
EXHIBIT 12  178 
 179 
 180 
 181 
 182 
EXHIBIT 13  183 
 184 
 185 
 186 
 187 
 188 
 189 
 190 
 191 
EXHIBIT 14  192 
 193 
 194 
 195 
EXHIBIT 15  196 
 197 
 198 
 199 
EXHIBIT 16  200 
 201 
 202 
 203 
 204 
Æ 