U.S. GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 50–118 PDF 2022 BUSINESS MEETING ON THE JANUARY 6TH 
INVESTIGATION 
MEETING 
OF THE  
SELECT COMMITTEE TO 
INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH 
ATTACK ON THE 
UNITED STATES CAPITOL 
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
ONE HUNDRED SEVENTEENTH CONGRESS 
SECOND SESSION 
OCTOBER 13, 2022 
Serial No. 117–5 
Printed for the use of the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th 
Attack on the United States Capitol 
Available via the World Wide Web: http://www.govinfo.gov  (II) SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON 
THE UNITED STATES CAPITOL 
BENNIE G. T HOMPSON , Mississippi, Chairman 
LIZCHENEY , Wyoming, Vice Chair 
ZOELOFGREN , California 
ADAM B. S CHIFF , California 
PETE AGUILAR , California 
STEPHANIE N. M URPHY , Florida 
JAMIE RASKIN , Maryland 
ELAINE G. L URIA , Virginia 
ADAM KINZINGER , Illinois  (III) COMMITTEE STAFF 
DAVID B. B UCKLEY , Staff Director 
KRISTIN L. A MERLING , Deputy Staff Director and Chief Counsel 
HOPE GOINS , Senior Counsel to the Chairman 
JOSEPH B. M AHER , Senior Counsel to the Vice Chair 
TIMOTHY J. H EAPHY , Chief Investigative Counsel 
JAMIE FLEET , Senior Advisor 
TIMOTHY R. M ULVEY , Communications Director 
CANDYCE PHOENIX , Senior Counsel and Senior Advisor 
JOHN F. W OOD, Senior Investigative Counsel and Of Counsel to the Vice Chair 
KATHERINE B. A BRAMS , Staff Associate 
TEMIDAYO AGANGA -WILLIAMS , Senior 
Investigative Counsel 
ALEJANDRA APECECHEA , Investigative Counsel 
LISAA. B IANCO , Director of Member Services 
and Security Manager 
JEROME P. B JELOPERA , Investigator 
BRYAN BONNER , Investigative Counsel 
RICHARD R. B RUNO , Senior Administrative 
Assistant 
MARCUS CHILDRESS , Investigative Counsel 
JOHN MARCUS CLARK , Security Director 
JACQUELINE N. C OLVETT , Digital Director 
HEATHER I. C ONNELLY , Professional Staff 
Member 
MEGHAN E. C ONROY , Investigator 
HEATHER L. C ROWELL , Printer Proofreader 
WILLIAM C. D ANVERS , Senior Researcher 
SOUMYALATHA DAYANANDA , Senior 
Investigative Counsel 
STEPHEN W. D EVINE, Senior Counsel 
LAWRENCE J. E AGLEBURGER , Professional 
Staff Member 
KEVIN S. E LLIKER , Investigative Counsel 
MARGARET E. E MAMZADEH , Staff Associate 
SADALLAH A. F ARAH , Professional Staff 
Member 
DANIEL A. G EORGE , Senior Investigative 
Counsel 
JACOB H. G LICK, Investigative Counsel 
AARON S. G REENE , Clerk 
MARC S. H ARRIS , Senior Investigative Counsel 
ALICE K. H AYES , Clerk 
QUINCY T. H ENDERSON , Staff Assistant 
JENNA HOPKINS , Professional Staff Member 
CAMISHA L. J OHNSON , Professional Staff 
Member THOMAS E. J OSCELYN , Senior Professional 
Staff Member 
REBECCA L. K NOOIHUIZEN , Financial 
Investigator 
CASEY E. L UCIER , Investigative Counsel 
DAMON M. M ARX, Professional Staff Member 
EVAN B. M AULDIN , Chief Clerk 
YONATAN L. M OSKOWITZ , Senior Counsel 
HANNAH G. M ULDAVIN , Deputy 
Communications Director 
JONATHAN D. M URRAY , Professional Staff 
Member 
JACOB A. N ELSON , Professional Staff Member 
ELIZABETH OBRAND , Staff Associate 
RAYMOND O’M ARA, Director of External 
Affairs 
ELYES OUECHTATI , Technology Partner 
ROBIN M. P EGUERO , Investigative Counsel 
SANDEEP A. P RASANNA , Investigative Counsel 
BARRY PUMP, Parliamentarian 
SEAN M. Q UINN , Investigative Counsel 
BRITTANY M. J. R ECORD , Senior Counsel 
DENVER RIGGLEMAN , Senior Technical Advisor 
JOSHUA D. R OSELMAN , Investigative Counsel 
JAMES N. S ASSO , Senior Investigative Counsel 
GRANT H. S AUNDERS , Professional Staff 
Member 
SAMANTHA O. S TILES , Chief Administrative 
Officer 
SEAN P. T ONOLLI , Senior Investigative 
Counsel 
DAVID A. W EINBERG , Senior Professional Staff 
Member 
AMANDA S. W ICK, Senior Investigative 
Counsel 
DARRIN L. W ILLIAMS , JR., Staff Assistant 
ZACHARY S. W OOD, Clerk  (IV) CONTRACTORS & CONSULTANTS 
RAWAA ALOBAIDI  
MELINDA ARONS  
STEVE BAKER  
ELIZABETH BISBEE  
DAVID CANADY  
JOHN COUGHLIN  
AARON DIETZEN  
GINAFERRISE  
ANGEL GOLDSBOROUGH  
JAMES GOLDSTON  
POLLY GRUBE  
L. C HRISTINE HEALEY  
DANNY HOLLADAY  
PERCY HOWARD  
DEAN JACKSON  
STEPHANIE J. J ONES  
HYATT MAMOUN  
MARY MARSH  
TODD MASON  
RYAN MAYERS  
JEFFMCBRIDE  
FRED MURAM  
ALEX NEWHOUSE  
JOHN NORTON  
ORLANDO PINDER  
OWEN PRATT  
DANPRYZGODA  
BRIAN SASSER  
WILLIAM SCHERER  
DRISS SEKKAT  
CHRIS STUART  
PRESTON SULLIVAN  
BRIAN YOUNG  
INNOVATIVE DRIVEN   (V) C O N T E N T S 
Page 
STATEMENTS OF MEMBERS OF CONGRESS  
The Honorable Bennie G. Thompson, a Representative in Congress From 
the State of Mississippi, and Chairman, Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol ...................................... 1 
The Honorable Liz Cheney, a Representative in Congress From the State 
of Wyoming, and Vice Chair, Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol ............................................................ 3 
The Honorable Zoe Lofgren, a Representative in Congress From the State 
of California .......................................................................................................... 5 
The Honorable Adam Kinzinger, a Representative in Congress From the 
State of Illinois ..................................................................................................... 9 
The Honorable Elaine Luria, a Representative in Congress From the State 
of Virginia ............................................................................................................. 14 
The Honorable Stephanie Murphy, a Representative in Congress From the 
State of Florida ..................................................................................................... 17 
The Honorable Adam Schiff, a Representative in Congress From the State 
of California .......................................................................................................... 19 
The Honorable Pete Aguilar, a Representative in Congress From the State 
of California .......................................................................................................... 24 
The Honorable Jamie Raskin, a Representative in Congress From the State 
of Maryland .......................................................................................................... 27 
C
OMMITTEE BUSINESS  
Committee Resolution 1 .......................................................................................... 35   (1) BUSINESS MEETING ON THE JANUARY 6TH 
INVESTIGATION 
Thursday, October 13, 2022 
U.S. H OUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES , 
SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH 
ATTACK ON THE UNITED STATES CAPITOL , 
Washington, DC. 
The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 1:01 p.m., in room 
390, Cannon House Office Building, Hon. Bennie G. Thompson [Chairman of the Committee] presiding. 
Present: Representatives Thompson, Cheney, Lofgren, Schiff, 
Aguilar, Murphy, Raskin, Luria, and Kinzinger. 
Chairman T
HOMPSON . The Select Committee to Investigate the 
January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol will be in order. 
Without objection, the Chair is authorized to declare the Com-
mittee in recess at any point. 
Pursuant to House Deposition Authority Regulation 10, the 
Chair announces the Committee’s approval to release the deposi-tion material presented during today’s meeting. 
Good afternoon, and may God bless the United States of Amer-
ica. 
Four months ago, this Committee started to present our findings 
to you, the American people. From the beginning, we understood that some people watching those proceedings would wrongly as-sume that the Committee’s investigation was a partisan exercise. That is why I asked those who were skeptical of our work simply to listen—to listen to the evidence, to hear the testimony with an open mind, and to let the facts speak for themselves before reach-ing any judgment. 
Over the course of these hearings, the evidence has proven that 
there was a multi-part plan led by former President Donald Trump to overturn the 2020 election. 
Donald Trump lost his bid for reelection. As shown from the tes-
timony of some of the President’s closest allies and advisers, Don-ald Trump knew he lost. 
Despite this knowledge, Donald Trump went to court to contest 
the 2020 election, and he lost in court. The electoral college met and declared Joe Biden the winner. Yet, Donald Trump continued to pull out all the stops in his attempt to stay in power. 
What Donald Trump proceeded to do after the 2020 election is 
something no President has done before in our country. In a stag-gering betrayal of his oath, Donald Trump attempted a plan that led to an attack on a pillar of our democracy. It is still hard to be- 2 
lieve. But the facts and testimony are clear, consistent, and undis-
puted. 
How do we know this? How have we been able to present such 
a clear picture of what took place? Because of the testimony we have heard and that we have now presented to you through these proceedings. Because of the documentary evidence we have gath-ered and also made available directly to you, the American people. 
When you look back at what has come out through this Commit-
tee’s work, the most striking fact is that all this evidence comes al-most entirely from Republicans. The evidence that has emerged did not come from Democrats or opponents of Donald Trump. Instead, look at who has written and testified and produced evidence. 
Who has that been? Aides who have worked loyally for Donald Trump for years. Republican State officials and legislators. Republican electors. The chairwoman of the Republican National Committee. Political professionals who worked at the highest levels of the 
Trump Campaign. 
Trump appointees who served in the most senior positions in the 
Justice Department. 
President Trump’s staff and closest advisers in the White House. Members of President Trump’s family. His own White House counsel. I have served in Congress a long time. I can tell you, it is tough 
for any congressional investigation to obtain evidence like what we have received, least of all such a detailed view into a President’s inner circle. 
I want to be clear: Not all these witnesses were thrilled to talk 
to us. Some put up quite a fight. But ultimately, the vast majority cooperated with our investigation. What we have shown you over the last 4 months has been centered on the evidence—evidence that has come overwhelmingly from Republican witnesses. 
So I say to you again, as I did in June, this investigation is not 
about politics. It is not about party. It is about the facts, plain and simple. It is about making sure our Government functions under the rule of law as our Constitution demands. 
Today, as in previous proceedings, my colleagues and I will 
present new evidence. That includes new testimony from additional Republicans who served in the Trump administration; never-before- seen footage of congressional leaders on January 6th working to co-ordinate the response to violence and ensure the people’s business went forward; new materials produced to the Committee by the Se-cret Service; details about the ongoing threat to American democ-racy. 
Today’s proceeding will also be grounded in the facts. But it 
won’t look exactly like all our other hearings. We will also take a step back and look at the evidence in a broader context, providing a summary of key facts we have uncovered, facts relevant to former President Trump’s state of mind, about his motivation, and about his intent. 
What did President Trump know? What was he told? What was 
his personal and substantial role in the multi-part plan to overturn the election?  3 
For those of you who have watched our prior hearings, some of 
this evidence will look familiar. For those of you tuning in for the first time, we will summarize some of the most important facts, and we urge you to go on-line and watch our hearing in full. 
There is one more difference about today. Pursuant to the notice 
circulated prior to today’s proceedings, we are convened today not as a hearing but as a formal Committee business meeting, so that in addition to presenting evidence, we can potentially hold a Com-mittee vote on further investigative action based upon that evi-dence. 
Before we get to that evidence, I would recognize our distin-
guished Vice Chair, Ms. Cheney of Wyoming, for any opening state-ment she would care to offer. 
Vice Chair C
HENEY . Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 
Much has happened since our last public hearing on July 21st. 
As the Chairman mentioned, we have received new and voluminous documentation from the Secret Service, which we continue to ana-lyze. We have received new witness testimony, including about ef-forts to obstruct our investigation and conceal key facts. According to public reporting, the Department of Justice has been very active in pursuing many of the issues identified in our prior hearings. 
Our Committee may ultimately decide to make a series of crimi-
nal referrals to the Department of Justice. But we recognize that our role is not to make decisions regarding prosecution. The Pre-amble to our Constitution recites among its purposes to, ‘‘establish justice,’’ and our Nation’s judiciary and our U.S. Department of Justice have that responsibility. 
A key element of this Committee’s responsibility is to propose re-
forms to prevent January 6th from ever happening again. We have already proposed, and the House has now passed, a bill to amend the Electoral Count Act, to help ensure that no other future plots to overturn an election can succeed. We will make further specific recommendations in our final report based in part on the evidence you will hear today. 
Our hearings last summer began with an outline of President 
Trump’s multi-part plan to overturn the 2020 Presidential election. We then proceeded to demonstrate each of these elements in detail with more than 20 hours of evidence. Today we will see new evi-dence, but as the Chairman said, we will also synthesize evidence you have seen before. 
The vast weight of evidence presented so far has shown us that 
the central cause of January 6th was one man, Donald Trump, who many others followed. None of this would have happened without him. He was personally and substantially involved in all of it. 
Exactly how did one man cause all of this? Today we will focus 
on President Trump’s state of mind, his intent, his motivations, and how he spurred others to do his bidding, and how another Jan-uary 6th could happen again if we do not take necessary action to prevent it. 
As you view our evidence today, I would suggest a focus on the 
following points. 
First, as you will see, President Trump had a premeditated plan 
to declare that the election was fraudulent and stolen before elec-tion day, before he knew the election results. He made his stolen  4 
election claims on election night, against the advice of his cam-
paign, without any evidence in hand. 
Then, over the next 2 months, he sought to find those who would 
help him invent and spread lies about the widespread fraud. Many of those who stepped forward to help, including Rudy Giuliani, knew they never had real evidence sufficient to change the election results. On the evening of January 5th, they admitted they were still trying to find that phantom evidence. 
Of course, as a result of making intentionally false claims of elec-
tion fraud, Mr. Giuliani’s license to practice law has now been sus-pended. 
Second, please recognize that President Donald Trump was in a 
unique position, better informed about the absence of widespread election fraud than almost any other American. President Trump’s own campaign experts told him that there was no evidence to sup-port his claims. His own Justice Department appointees inves-tigated the election fraud claims and told him point-blank they were false. 
In mid-December 2020, President Trump’s senior advisers told 
him the time had come to concede the election. Donald Trump knew the courts had ruled against him. He had all of this informa-tion, but still he made the conscious choice to claim, fraudulently, that the election was stolen, to pressure State officials to change election results, to manufacture fake electoral slates, to attempt to corrupt our Department of Justice, to summon tens of thousands of supporters to Washington. Knowing that they were angry, know-ing that some of them were armed, he sent them to the Capitol. 
Then, as the riot was underway, he incited his supporters to fur-
ther violence by publicly condemning his Vice President. Then he refused for hours to disband his rioting supporters and instruct them to leave the Capitol, even when he was begged repeatedly to do so. 
None of this is normal or acceptable or lawful in our Republic. Third, please consider today who had a hand in defeating Presi-
dent Trump’s efforts to overturn the election: Vice President Pence. Bill Barr, Jeff Rosen, and others at the Department of Justice. State Republican officials. White House staff who blocked proposals to mobilize the military to seize voting machines and run new elec-tions. Our Capitol Police, aided by the Metropolitan Police. Other Federal law enforcement and our National Guard, who arrived later in the afternoon. All of these people had a hand in stopping Donald Trump. 
This leads us to a key question. Why would Americans assume 
that our Constitution and our institutions in our Republic are in-vulnerable to another attack? Why would we assume that those in-stitutions will not falter next time? 
A key lesson of this investigation is this: Our institutions only 
hold when men and women of good faith make them hold, regard-less of the political cost. 
We have no guarantee that these men and women will be in 
place next time. Any future President inclined to attempt what Donald Trump did in 2020 has now learned not to install people who could stand in the way.  5 
Also, please consider this: The rulings of our courts are respected 
and obeyed because we as citizens pledge to accept and honor them. Most importantly, our President, who has a constitutional obligation to faithfully execute the laws, swears to accept them. 
What happens when the President disregards the courts’ rulings 
as illegitimate, when he disregards the rule of law? That, my fellow citizens, breaks our Republic. 
Finally, as you view the evidence today, also consider this: Presi-
dent Trump knew from unassailable sources that his election fraud claims were false. He admitted he had lost the election. He took ac-tions consistent with that belief. 
Claims that President Trump actually thought the election was 
stolen are not supported by fact and are not a defense. There is no defense that Donald Trump was duped or irrational. No President can defy the rule of law and act this way in a constitutional repub-lic, period. 
Mr. Chairman, our Nation’s Federal judges are sworn to do im-
partial justice, to preserve our Constitution, and preserve our Union. Dozens of these judges have been addressing January 6th cases, and many have given us plain, unmistakable warnings about the direction of our Republic. 
Let me read from one judge’s statement given at a recent sen-
tencing hearing. ‘‘High-ranking Members of Congress and State of-ficials who know perfectly well the claim of fraud was and is un-true and that the election was legitimate are so afraid of losing their power, they won’t say so. 
‘‘It has to be crystal clear, that it is not patriotism, it is not 
standing up for America to stand up for one man who knows full well that he lost instead of the Constitution he was trying to sub-vert.’’ 
Mr. Chairman, the violence and lawlessness of January 6th was 
unjustifiable, but our Nation cannot only punish the foot soldiers who stormed our Capitol. Those who planned to overturn our elec-tion and brought us to the point of violence must also be account-able. With every effort to excuse or justify the conduct of the former President, we chip away at the foundation of our Republic. Indefensible conduct is defended. Inexcusable conduct is excused. Without accountability, it all becomes normal, and it will recur. 
So as we watch the evidence today, please consider where our 
Nation is in its history. Consider whether we can survive for an-other 246 years. 
Most people in most places on Earth have not been free. America 
is an exception, and America continues only because we bind our-selves to our Founders’ principles, to our Constitution. We recog-nize that some principles must be beyond politics, inviolate, and more important than any single American who has ever lived. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman 
from California, Ms. Lofgren, for an opening statement. 
Ms. L OFGREN . Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
We begin this meeting by returning to election night, November 
3, 2020. As the Chairman noted, we have previously presented tes-timony about how the election results were expected to come in that night. In certain States, ballots cast by mail before election  6 
day would be counted only after the polls closed that evening. That 
meant that election results would not be known for some time. 
Although President Trump’s campaign manager, Bill Stepien, 
House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy, and Jared Kushner had advised Donald Trump to encourage mail-in voting by Republicans, President Trump did not do so. 
Mr. K USHNER . Yeah, I just remember generally, you know, you had people argu-
ing that we had a very, very robust get-out-the-vote effort and that, you know, mail- in ballots could be a good thing for us if we looked at it correctly. 
Mr. S TEPIEN . There was one meeting that was had in particular. I invited Kevin 
McCarthy to join the meeting, he being of like mind on the issue with me, in which we made our case for why we believed mail-in balloting—mail-in voting—not to be a bad thing for his campaign. But, you know, the President’s mind was made up. 
Ms. L OFGREN . So it was expected before the election that the ini-
tial counts in some States—in other words, those votes cast on elec-tion day—would be more heavily Republican, and this would create the false perception of a lead for President Trump, a so-called ‘‘red mirage,’’ but as the results of the absentee ballots were later count-ed, there could be trends toward Vice President Biden, as those mail-in ballots were counted. 
Now, on election night, Donald Trump’s advisers specifically told 
him he didn’t have a factual basis to declare victory. He should wait for the remaining ballots to be counted. 
Here is campaign manager Bill Stepien. 
Mr. S TEPIEN . It was far too early to be making any calls like that. Ballots were 
still being counted. Ballots were still going to be counted for days. And it was far too early to be making any proclamation like that. 
My belief, my recommendation, was to say that votes were still being counted, it 
is too early to tell, too early to call the race. 
Ms. L OFGREN . But President Trump did declare victory in the 
late hours of election night. Not only did he declare victory, he also called for the ongoing count of votes to just stop. 
Stopping the count would have violated both Federal and State 
laws and also disenfranchised millions of voters who lawfully cast their vote. He called for that action anyway. 
Here is what he said. 
President T RUMP . This is a fraud on the American public. This is an embarrass-
ment to our country. We were getting ready to win this election. Frankly, we did win this election. We did win this electio n....  
We want all voting to stop. 
Ms. L OFGREN . We now know more about President Trump’s in-
tentions for election night. The evidence shows that his false vic-tory speech was planned well in advance, before any votes had been counted. It was a premeditated plan by the President to de-clare victory no matter what the actual result was. He made a plan to stay in office before election day. 
Now, the Vice President’s staff was concerned with what Donald 
Trump might do on election night. They took steps to ensure that Mr. Pence would not echo a false victory announcement from Presi-dent Trump. 
Here is what the Vice President’s counsel, Greg Jacob, told us 
about his preparations with the Vice President’s chief of staff, Marc Short.  7 
Mr. J ACOB . Marc had indicated to me that there was a possibility that there 
would be a declaration of victory within the White House that some might push for—and this is prior to the election results being known—and that he was trying to figure out a way of avoiding the Vice President sort-of being thrust into a position of needing to opine on that when he might not have sufficient information to do so. 
Ms. L OFGREN . Now, following this conversation, Mr. Jacob draft-
ed a memo to Mr. Short which the Select Committee got from the National Archives. The memo was sent on November 3rd, election day, and advised ‘ ‘...i t  i s  essential that the Vice President not 
be perceived by the public as having decided questions concerning disputed electoral votes prior to the full development of all relevant facts.’’ 
A few days before the election, Mr. Trump also consulted with 
one of his outside advisers, activist Tom Fitton, about the strategy for election night. The Select Committee got this pre-prepared statement from the National Archives. As you can see, the draft statement, which was sent on October 31st, declares, ‘‘We had an election today—and I won.’’ 
The Fitton memo specifically indicates a plan that only the votes 
‘‘counted by the election day deadline’’—and there is no election day deadline—would matter. Everyone knew that ballot counting 
would lawfully continue past election day. Claiming that the count-ing on election night must stop before millions of votes were count-ed was, as we now know, a key part of President Trump’s premedi-tated plan. 
On election day, just after 5 p.m., Mr. Fitton indicated he had 
spoken with the President about the statement. ‘‘Sending along again. Just talked to him about the draft belo w... ’’. Again, this 
plan to declare victory was in place before any of the results had been determined. 
In the course of our investigation, we also interviewed Brad 
Parscale, President Trump’s former campaign manager. He told us he understood that President Trump planned as early as July that he would say he won the election even if he lost. 
Just a few days before the election, Steve Bannon, a former 
Trump chief White House strategist and outside adviser to Presi-dent Trump, spoke to a group of his associates from China and said this. 
Mr. B ANNON . And what Trump’s gonna do is just declare victory, right? He’s 
gonna declare victory. But that doesn’t mean he’s the winner. He’s just going to say he’s the winner. 
The Democrats—more of our people vote early that count. Theirs vote in mail. 
And so they’re going to have a natural disadvantage, and Trump’s going to take ad-vantage of it. That’s our strategy. He’s gonna declare himself the winner. So when you wake up Wednesday morning, it’s going to be a firestorm. 
Also—also, if Trump—if Trump is losing by 10 or 11 o’clock at night, it’s going 
to be even crazier. No, because he’s going to sit right there and say, ‘‘They stole it. I’m directing the Attorney General to shut down all ballot places in all 50 States.’’ It’s going to be—no, he’s not going out easy. If Trump—if Biden’s winning, Trump is going to do some crazy shit. 
Ms. L OFGREN . As you know, Mr. Bannon refused to testify in our 
investigation. He has been convicted of criminal contempt of Con-gress, and he is awaiting sentencing. But the evidence indicates that Mr. Bannon had advance knowledge of Mr. Trump’s intent to declare victory falsely on election night, but also that Mr. Bannon knew about Mr. Trump’s planning for January 6th.  8 
Here is what Bannon said on January 5th. 
Mr. B ANNON . All hell is going to break loose tomorrow. 
It’s all converging, and now we’re on, as they say, the point of attack, right, the 
point of attack tomorrow. 
I’ll tell you this. It’s not going to happen like you think it’s going to happen, okay? 
It’s going to be quite extraordinarily different. And all I can say is strap in. You have made this happen, and tomorrow it’s game day. So strap in. Let’s get ready. 
Ms. L OFGREN . Another close associate of Donald Trump appar-
ently knew of Mr. Trump’s intentions as well. 
Now, Roger Stone is a political operative with a reputation for 
dirty tricks. In November 2019, he was convicted of lying to Con-gress and other crimes and sentenced to more than 3 years in pris-on. 
He is also a longtime adviser to President Trump and was in 
communication with President Trump throughout 2020. Mr. Trump pardoned Roger Stone on December 23, 2020. 
Now, recently, the Select Committee got footage of Mr. Stone be-
fore and after the election from Danish filmmaker Christoffer Guldbrandsen, pursuant to a subpoena. Right before the election, here is Roger Stone talking about what President Trump would do after the election. 
Mr. S TONE . Let’s just hope we’re celebrating. I suspect it’ll be—I really do suspect 
it will still be up in the air. When that happens the key thing to do is to claim vic-tory. Possession is nine-tenths of the law. No, we won. Fuck you. Sorry. Over. We won. You’re wrong. Fuck you. 
I said, fuck the voting. Let’s get right to the violence. V
OICE . That’s what I am fucking saying. There is no point. 
Mr. S TONE . We will have to start smashing pumpkins, if you know what I mean. 
VOICE . Oh, yeah. 
Ms. L OFGREN . The Select Committee called Mr. Stone as a wit-
ness, but he invoked his Fifth Amendment right against self-in-crimination. 
Vice Chair C HENEY . Do you believe the violence on January 6th was justified? 
Mr. S TONE . On the advice of counsel, I respectfully decline to answer your ques-
tion on the basis of the Fifth Amendment. 
Vice Chair C HENEY . And, Mr. Stone, did you have any role in planning for the 
violence on January 6th? 
Mr. S TONE . Once again, I will assert my Fifth Amendment right to decline to an-
swer your question. 
Ms. L OFGREN . Although we don’t yet have all the relevant 
records of Roger Stone’s communications, even Stone’s own social media posts acknowledge that he spoke with Donald Trump on De-cember 27th as preparations for January 6th were underway. 
In this post, you can see how Roger Stone talked about his con-
versations with President Trump. He wrote, ‘‘I also told the Presi-dent exactly how he can appoint a Special Counsel with full sub-poena power to ensure those who are attempting to steal the 2020 election through voter fraud are charged and convicted and to en-sure Donald Trump continues as our President.’’ 
As we know by now, the idea for a Special Counsel was not just 
an idle suggestion. It was something President Trump had actually tried to do earlier that month. 
We know that Roger Stone was at the Willard Hotel on January 
5th and 6th, and we know from other witness testimony that Presi-dent Trump asked his chief of staff, Mark Meadows, to speak with Roger Stone and General Michael Flynn that night.  9 
In addition to his connection to President Trump, Roger Stone 
maintained extensive direct connections to two groups responsible for violently attacking the Capitol, the Oath Keepers and the Proud Boys. Individuals from both of these organizations have been charged with the crime of seditious conspiracy. 
Now, what is seditious conspiracy? It is a conspiracy to use vio-
lent force against the United States, to oppose the lawful authority of the United States. 
Multiple associates of Roger Stone, from both the Oath Keepers 
and the Proud Boys, have been charged with this crime. Close asso-ciates of Roger Stone, including Joshua James, have pled guilty to this crime. 
We know that at least seven Oath Keepers—who have been 
criminally charged—provided personal security for Roger Stone or were seen with him on January 6th or in the weeks leading up to January 6th. 
For example, Joshua James, the leader of the Alabama Oath 
Keepers, provided security for Roger Stone and was with him on January 5th. This is a picture of the two together on January 5th. 
James entered the Capitol on January 6th. He assaulted a police 
officer. Earlier this year, he pled guilty to seditious conspiracy and obstruction of Congress. 
Another example is the married couple Kelly and Connie Meggs. 
Now, Kelly Meggs was the leader of the Florida chapter of the Oath Keepers. Both he and his wife provided security for Roger Stone, and both are charged with leading a military-style stack at-tack of Oath Keepers attacking the Capitol on January 6th. 
Perhaps even more disturbing is Roger Stone’s close association 
with Enrique Tarrio, the national chairman of the Proud Boys. Roger Stone’s connection with Enrique Tarrio and the Proud Boys is well-documented by video evidence, with phone records the Se-lect Committee has obtained. Tarrio, along with other Proud Boys, has been charged with multiple crimes concerning the attack on January 6th, including seditious conspiracy. 
During the attack, Tarrio sent a message to other Proud Boys 
claiming, ‘‘We did that!’’ He also visited the White House on De-cember 12th. 
Later that day, he posted a disturbing video claiming credit for 
the attack. This video, posted on January 6th, was apparently cre-ated prior to the attack. 
This Big Lie, President Trump’s effort to convince Americans 
that he had won the 2020 election, began before the election results even came in. It was intentional. It was premeditated. It was not based on election results or any evidence of actual fraud affecting the results or any actual problems with voting machines. 
It was a plan concocted in advance to convince his supporters 
that he won. The people who seemingly knew about that plan in advance would ultimately play a significant role in the events of January 6th. 
Mr. Chairman, I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentlewoman yields back. 
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Illinois, Mr. Kinzinger, 
for an opening statement. 
Mr. K INZINGER . Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  10 
Very shortly after the election, the Trump campaign recognized 
that they had likely lost the election, and they informed Donald Trump of that fact. 
Even before the networks called the race for President Biden on 
November 7th, his chances of pulling out a victory were virtually nonexistent, and President Trump knew it. 
Mr. G EORGE . Do you know if anybody ever told the President that he had lost and 
that there wasn’t a chance of him winning? 
Mr. J ASON MILLER . The—I know that the President, when the networks called— 
it—of course, he was informed about the network—decision—that—afternoon, at some point, myself and a handful of other folks went over and sat down with the President and communicated that the odds of us prevailing in legal challenges were very small. 
Ms. L OFGREN . You know, after the election, as of November 7th, in your judg-
ment, what were the chances of President Trump winning the election? 
Mr. S TIREWALT . After that point? 
Ms. L OFGREN . Yes. 
Mr. S TIREWALT . None. 
Mr. K INZINGER . At times, President Trump acknowledged the re-
ality of his loss. Although he publicly claimed that he had won the election, privately he admitted that Joe Biden would take over as President. 
Here are a few examples of that. 
General M ILLEY . So we’re in the Oval and there’s a discussion going on. And the 
President says—I think it’s—it could’ve been Pompeo. But he says words to the ef-fect of, ‘‘Yes, we lost, we need to let that issue go to the next guy,’’ meaning Presi-dent Biden. 
Ms. F ARAH . I remember, maybe a week after the election was called, I popped into 
the Oval just to like give the President the headlines and see how he was doing, and he was looking at the TV, and he said, ‘‘Can you believe I lost to this F’ing guy?’’ 
Ms. H UTCHINSON . So Mark raised it with me on the 18th. And so following that 
conversation, we’re in the motorcade ride driving back to the White House, and I had said like, ‘‘Does the President really think that he lost?’’ And he said, ‘‘You know, a lot of times he’ll tell me that he lost but he wants to keep fighting, and he thinks that there might be enough to overturn the election. But, you know, he pretty much has acknowledged that he—that he’s lost.’’ 
Mr. K INZINGER . Knowing that he had lost and that he had only 
weeks left in office, President Trump rushed to complete his unfin-ished business. 
One key example is this: President Trump issued an order for 
large-scale U.S. troop withdrawals. He disregarded concerns about the consequences for fragile governments on the front lines of the fight against ISIS and al-Qaeda terrorists. 
Knowing he was leaving office, he acted immediately and signed 
this order on November 11th, which would have required the im-mediate withdrawal of troops from Somalia and Afghanistan, all to be complete before the Biden inauguration on January 20th. 
As you watch these clips, recall that General Keith Kellogg was 
the National Security Advisor to the Vice President and had served as chief of staff to the National Security Council for President Trump, and General Milley was the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff at the Pentagon.  11 
Mr. W OOD. Are you familiar with a memo that the President reportedly signed 
on November 11, 2020, ordering that troops be withdrawn from Afghanistan and So-malia? 
Mr. K
ELLOGG . Yes. 
General M ILLEY . So I think you might have seen some things where there’s a 
memo or something from Johnny McEntee to Douglas Macgregor. It says, ‘‘Here’s your task: To get U.S. forces out of—out of Somalia, get U.S. forces out of Afghani-stan.’’ 
Ms. D AYANANDA . When you first interviewed and met Colonel Douglas Macgregor, 
is it fair to say you discussed this decision of withdrawing from Somalia and Af-ghanistan? Correct? 
Mr. M
CENTEE . Yes, I’m sure that was part of it, yes. 
Ms. D AYANANDA . And that was—the position that he was taking over there was 
senior adviser to the Secretary of Defense. Is that correct? 
Mr. M CENTEE . Yes. 
Ms. D AYANANDA . So on that same day, just so I’m clear, he responded back to you 
that they, meaning DOD leadership, was not going to do—take any of those steps without an order? 
Mr. M
CENTEE . Without a directive, yes. 
Mr. M ACGREGOR . I explained in language that should be in the order, while I was 
in the meeting with McEntee, and this was my answer to him. I said, if you want this to happen, or if the President wants this to happen, he’s got to write an order. 
Mr. M
ARX. So you never wrote this down in any capacity? 
Mr. M ACGREGOR . Well, I sketched on a piece of paper for him some key state-
ments. You know, ‘‘The President directs.’’ You know, this is—what’s the right word? Boilerplate language? 
Ms. D AYANANDA . Who was in his office that drafted the order? 
Mr. M CENTEE . It was myself and one of my assistants. 
General M ILLEY . McEntee duly types it up, brings it in to the President, the 
President signs it, and boom, it’s over—faxed over or emailed, scanned over—and Kash Patel delivers it to me. 
Ms. D AYANANDA . Was it by autopen, or was it the President himself signing it? 
Mr. M CENTEE . It was the President. 
Ms. D AYANANDA . And who obtained that signature? 
Mr. M CENTEE . I did. 
General M ILLEY . It is odd. It is not standard. It is potentially dangerous. I person-
ally thought it was militarily not feasible nor wise. 
Mr. K ELLOGG . And I proceeded to tell the PPO and proceeded to tell Macgregor 
that if I ever saw anything like that, I would do something physical, because I thought what was done was a tremendous disservice to the Nation. And by the way, it was—that—it was a very contested issue. There were people who did not agree with getting out of Afghanistan. I appreciate their concerns. 
An immediate departure that that memo said would have been catastrophic. It’s 
the same thing what President Biden went through. It would have been a debacle. 
Mr. K INZINGER . Keep in mind, the order was for an immediate 
withdrawal. It would have been catastrophic. Yet, President Trump signed the order. These are the highly consequential actions of a President who knows his term will shortly end. 
At the same time that President Trump was acknowledging pri-
vately that he had lost the election, he was hearing that there was  12 
no evidence of fraud or irregularities sufficient to change the out-
come. 
Mr. C ANNON . I remember a call with Mr. Meadows where Mr. Meadows was ask-
ing me what I was finding and if I was finding anything. And I remember sharing with him that we weren’t finding anything that would be sufficient to change the results in any of the key States. 
Mr. H
ARRIS . When was that conversation? 
Mr. C ANNON . Probably in November, mid-to-late November. I think it was before 
my child was born. 
Mr. H ARRIS . And what was Mr. Meadows’s reaction to that information? 
Mr. C ANNON . I believe the words he used were, ‘‘So there’s no ‘there’ there?’’ 
Mr. S TEPIEN . It would be our job to track it down and come up dry because the 
allegation didn’t prove to be true. And we’d have to relay the news that, yes, that someone told you about those votes or that fraud or nothing came of it. It would be our job as the truth-telling squad. And it’s not a fun job to be much—it’s an easi-er job to be telling the President about wild allegations. It’s a harder job to be tell-ing him on the back end that, yes, that’s—that wasn’t true. 
Mr. M ORGAN . What was generally discussed on that topic was whether the fraud, 
maladministration, abuse or irregularities, if aggregated and read most favorably to the campaign, would that be outcome-determinative. I think everyone’s assessment in the room, at least amongst the staff, Marc Short, myself, and Greg Jacob, was that it was not sufficient to be outcome-determinative. 
Mr. K INZINGER . Look, it is the right of any candidate to litigate 
genuine election disputes. Nobody argues that. But President Trump’s litigation was completely unsuccessful. 
In our past hearings, we told you that the Committee had identi-
fied a total of 62 election lawsuits filed by the Trump Campaign 
and its allies between November 4th and January 6th of 2021. Those cases resulted in 61 losses and only a single victory, which did not affect the outcome for any candidate. 
The claims were not supported by any sufficient evidence of 
fraud or irregularities. In fact, they were baseless, as judges re-peatedly recognized. In none of these 62 cases was President Trump able to establish any viable claims of election fraud suffi-cient to overturn the results of the election. 
In those hearings, we shared with you the words used by judges 
around the country in rejecting the Trump Campaign’s claims. It is strong language, criticizing the lack of evidentiary support for the claims of election fraud in those lawsuits. For example, a Fed-eral appeals court in Pennsylvania wrote, ‘‘Charges require specific allegations and proof. We have neither here.’’ 
A Federal judge in Wisconsin wrote, ‘‘The Court has allowed the 
former President the chance to make his case, and he has lost on the merits.’’ 
Another judge, in Michigan, called the claims ‘‘nothing but specu-
lation and conjecture that votes for President Trump were either destroyed, discarded, or switched to votes for Vice President Biden.’’ 
A Federal judge in Michigan sanctioned nine attorneys, including 
Sidney Powell, for making frivolous allegations in an election fraud case, describing the case as ‘‘a historic and profound abuse of the judicial process.’’  13 
Recently, a group of distinguished Republican election lawyers, 
former judges, and elected officials issued a report confirming the findings of the courts. 
In their report, entitled ‘‘Lost, Not Stolen,’’ these prominent Re-
publicans analyzed each election challenge and concluded this: ‘‘Donald Trump and his supporters failed to present evidence of fraud or inaccurate results significant enough to invalidate the re-sults of the 2020 Presidential election.’’ 
On December 11th, Trump’s allies lost a lawsuit in the U.S. Su-
preme Court that he regarded as his last chance at success in the courts. A newly obtained Secret Service message from that day shows how angry President Trump was about the outcome: ‘‘Just FYI, POTUS is pissed—breaking news—Supreme Court denied his lawsuit. He is livid now.’’ 
Cassidy Hutchinson, an aide to Chief of Staff Mark Meadows, 
was present for that conversation and described it in this way. 
Ms. H UTCHINSON . This is the day that the Supreme Court had rejected that case. 
Mr. Meadows and I were in the White House residence at a Christmas reception. And as we were walking back from the Christmas reception that evening, the Presi-dent was walking out of the Oval Office, so we crossed paths in the Rose Garden colonnade. The President was fired up about the Supreme Court decision. 
And so, you know, I was standing next to Meadows, Mr. Meadows, but I stepped 
back, so I was probably 2, 3 feet catty-corner, from a diagonal from him. You know, the President is just raging about the decision and how it’s wrong and why didn’t we make more calls, and, you know, just his typical anger, outburst at this decision. 
And the President said he had—I had put the quote—okay. So he had said some-
thing to the effect of, ‘‘I don’t want people to know we lost, Mark. This is embar-rassing. Figure it out. We need to figure it out. I don’t want people to know that we lost.’’ 
Mr. K INZINGER . Our country is a country of laws where every 
person, including the President, must follow the law and respect the judgment of our courts. President Trump’s closest advisers held that view both then and now. 
Vice Chair C HENEY . Well, do you believe the President should abide by the rulings 
of the courts? 
Secretary of State P OMPEO . Oh, yes, we should all comply with the law at all 
times to the best of our ability, every one of us. 
Vice Chair C HENEY . So once the courts had ruled and the electoral college had 
met, the election was over, in your view? 
Secretary of State P OMPEO . Yes. I think I—I think I’ve said previously that when 
the Vice President made the certification and the litigation was complete, it was complete. 
Vice Chair C
HENEY . When the electoral college met on the 14th? 
Secretary of State P OMPEO . Yes, as of December 14th. Is that right? I think that’s 
the right date, yes. 
Vice Chair C HENEY . I assume, Pat, that you would agree the President is obli-
gated to abide by the rulings of the courts? 
Mr. C IPOLLONE . Of course. 
Vice Chair C HENEY . And I assume you also would—— 
Mr. C IPOLLONE . Everybody is obligated to abide by rulings of courts. 
Vice Chair C HENEY . And I assume you also would agree the President has a par-
ticular obligation to take care that the laws be faithfully executed? 
Mr. C IPOLLONE . That is one of the President’s obligations, correct. 
Vice Chair C HENEY . Ivanka, do you believe the President’s obligated to abide by 
the rulings of the courts? 
Ms. T RUMP . I do.  14 
Mr. K INZINGER . By mid-December 2020, President Trump’s sen-
ior staff were attempting to persuade him to concede the election outcome. 
Mr. C IPOLLONE . But if your question is did I believe he should concede the elec-
tion at a point in time, yes, I did. 
Attorney General B ARR. December 14th was the day that the States certified their 
votes and sent them to Congress. And in my view, that was the end of the matter. I didn’t see—you know, I thought that this would lead inexorably to a new adminis-tration. 
Mr. D EERE . I told him that my personal viewpoint was that the electoral college 
had met, which is the system that our country is set under to elect a President and Vice President, and I believed at that point that the means for him to pursue litiga-tion was probably closed. 
Mr. W
OOD. And do you recall what his response, if any, was? 
Mr. D EERE . He disagreed. 
Mr. K INZINGER . Secretary of Labor Gene Scalia, the son of late 
Justice Scalia, visited President Trump in mid-December and ex-plained the situation clearly. 
Secretary of Labor S CALIA . And so I had put a call in to the President—I might 
have called on the 13th, we spoke, I believe, on the 14th—in which I conveyed to him that I thought that it was time for him to acknowledge that President Biden had prevailed in the election. 
But I communicated to the President that when that legal process is exhausted 
and when the electors have voted, that that’s the point at which that outcome needs to be expected. 
I told him that I did believe, yes, that once those legal processes were run, if fraud 
had not been established that had affected the outcome of the election, then, unfor-tunately, I believed that what had to be done was concede the outcome. 
Mr. K INZINGER . Not only did the courts reject President Trump’s 
fraud and other allegations, his Department of Justice appointees, including Bill Barr, Jeffrey Rosen, and Richard Donoghue, did as well. President Trump knew the truth. 
He heard what all his experts and senior staff were telling him. 
He knew he had lost the election. But he made the deliberate choice to ignore the courts, to ignore the Justice Department, to ig-nore his campaign leadership, to ignore senior advisers, and to pur-sue a completely unlawful effort to overturn the election. His intent was plain: Ignore the rule of law and stay in power. 
Mr. Chairman, I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentleman yields back. 
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Virginia, Mrs. 
Luria. 
Mrs. L URIA . Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
Mid-December was a turning point. President Trump made a de-
cision, a choice, to ignore the courts and his advisers and to push forward to overturn the election. 
His efforts to overturn the election were not random or discon-
nected; rather, they were part of a coordinated, multi-part plan to ensure that he stayed in power. 
Donald Trump was the driver behind each part of this plan. He 
was personally and directly involved. 
Of course, a key element of the plan was continuing to convince 
tens of millions of Americans that he did not, in fact, lose. Again,  15 
he did this even though his own campaign advisers and his Justice 
Department officials told him his claims of fraud were wrong. 
In this video, you will see that even when top law enforcement 
officials told the President his election fraud claims were false, he still repeated the claims in the days and weeks that followed, some-times even the very next day. 
Attorney General B ARR. He specifically raised the Dominion voting machines, 
which I found to be among the most disturbing allegations, disturbing in the sense that I saw absolutely zero basis for the allegations. I told him that it was crazy stuff, and they were wasting their time on that, and it was doing a grave disservice to the country. 
President T RUMP . We have a company that’s very suspect. Its name is Dominion. 
With the turn of a dial or the change of a chip you can press a button for Trump and the vote goes to Biden. What kind of a system is this? 
Mr. D ONOGHUE . We definitely talked about Antrim County again. That was sort- 
of done at that point, because the hand recount had been done and all that. But we cited back to that to say, you know, ‘‘This is an example of what people are tell-ing you and what’s being filed in some of these court filings that are just not sup-ported by the evidence. And this is the problem. The problem is people keep telling you these things and they turn out not to be true.’’ 
President T RUMP . In addition, there is the highly troubling matter of Dominion 
Voting Systems. In one Michigan County alone, 6,000 votes were switched from Trump to Biden, and the same systems are used in the majority of States in our country. 
Attorney General B ARR. I went into this and would, you know, tell him how crazy 
some of these allegations were and how ridiculous some of them were. I’m talking about some of the things like, you know, more votes—more absentee votes were cast in Pennsylvania than there were absentee ballots requested, you know, stuff like that, it was just easy to blow up. There was never—there was never an indication of interest in what the actual facts were. 
President T RUMP . There were more votes than there were voters. Think of that. 
You had more votes than you had voters. That’s an easy one to figure. And it’s by the thousands. 
Attorney General B ARR. Then he raised the big vote dump, as he called it, in De-
troit, and he said people saw boxes coming into the counting station at all hours of the morning. And I said, ‘‘Mr. President, there are 630 precincts in Detroit, and unlike elsewhere in the State, they centralize the counting process so they’re not counted in each precinct. They’re moved to counting stations. And so the normal process would involve boxes coming in at all different hours.’’ 
President T RUMP . This is Michigan. At 6:31 in the morning, a vote dump of 
149,772 votes came in unexpectedly. 
Mr. D ONOGHUE . With regard to Georgia, we looked at the tape. We interviewed 
the witnesses. There is no suitcase. The President kept fixating on this suitcase that supposedly had fraudulent ballots and that the suitcase was rolled out from under the table. And I said, ‘‘No, sir, there is no suitcase. You can watch that video over and over. There is no suitcase. There is a wheeled bin where they carry the ballots, and that’s just how they move ballots around that facility. There’s nothing sus-picious about that at all.’’  16 
President T RUMP . Election officials pull boxes, Democrats, and suitcases of ballots 
out from under a table. You all saw it on television. Totally fraudulent. 
Mrs. L URIA . This happened over and over again, and our Com-
mittee’s report will document it, purposeful lies made in public di-rectly at odds with what Donald Trump knew from unassailable sources, the Justice Department’s own investigations, and his own campaign. Donald Trump maliciously repeated this nonsense to a wide audience over and over again. His intent was to deceive. 
President Trump’s plan also involved trying to coerce Govern-
ment officials to change the election outcome in the States he lost. He personally reached out to numerous State officials and pres-sured them to take unlawful steps to alter the election results in those States. 
These actions, taken directly by the President himself, made it 
clear what his intentions were: to prevent the orderly transfer of power. 
We all recall, for example, President Trump’s tape-recorded call 
with Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger. At the time this call occurred, President Trump had already been told repeat-edly by the U.S. Justice Department, by his campaign, and by his advisers that his allegations of fraud in Georgia were false. 
President T RUMP . So, look, all I want to do is this. I just want to find 11,780 
votes, which is one more than we have, because we won the State. 
Look, we need only 11,000 votes. We have far more than that as it stands now. 
We’ll have more and more. 
So what are we going to do here, folks? I only need 11,000 votes. Fellas, I need 
11,000 votes. Give me a break. 
Mrs. L URIA . ‘‘I just want to find 11,780 votes.’’ That is an extraor-
dinary demand by the President, especially since he already knew from the Justice Department there was no genuine basis for this request. No one could think it would be legal for the secretary of state to simply ‘‘find the votes’’ the President needed in order to win. 
Secretary Raffensperger told the President the truth—that he 
lost the election in Georgia. But President Trump did not accept that answer. Instead, he suggested that Secretary Raffensperger himself might be prosecuted. 
President T RUMP . That’s a—you know, that’s a criminal—that’s a criminal offense. 
And, you know, you can’t let that happen. That’s a big risk to you and to Ryan, your lawyer. That’s a big risk. 
Mrs. L URIA . We know that President Trump’s White House advi-
sors reacted negatively. Immediately after the call, Cassidy Hutch-inson had a conversation with Chief of Staff Mark Meadows. 
Ms. H UTCHINSON . I remember looking at Mark, and I said, ‘‘Mark, he can’t pos-
sibly think we’re going to pull this off. Like, that call was crazy.’’ And he looked at me and just started shaking his head, and he’s like, ‘‘No, Cass, you know, he knows it’s over. He knows he lost. But we’re going to keep trying. There are some good options out there still. We’re going to keep trying.’’ 
Mrs. L URIA . This call and other related activity is now the focus 
of an ongoing criminal investigation in Fulton County, Georgia. 
Georgia is not the only State where President Trump tried to 
pressure State officials to change the results. He also attempted to pressure State officials in Arizona, Pennsylvania, and Michigan to change the results in those States as well.  17 
While President Trump was pressuring State officials, he was 
also trying to use the Department of Justice to change the election result. His top officials told him that there was no evidence to sup-port his claims of fraud, but he didn’t care. As he told them, ‘‘Just say the election was corrupt, and leave the rest to me and the [Re-publican] Congressmen.’’ 
When these officials would not do what he said, President Trump 
embarked on an effort to install Jeff Clark as Acting Attorney Gen-eral, solely because he would do what others in the Department would not do. 
We know that Trump was doing so for a specific purpose: so 
Clark could corruptly employ the Justice Department’s authority to help persuade the States to flip electoral votes. 
For example, when Richard Donoghue and Jeff Rosen, both ap-
pointed by President Trump, learned of Mr. Clark’s proposal, here is why they said they forcefully rejected it. 
Mr. D ONOGHUE . And I recall toward the end saying, ‘‘What you’re proposing is 
nothing less than the United States Justice Department meddling in the outcome of a Presidential election.’’ 
But, more importantly, this was not based on fact. This was actually contrary to 
the facts as developed by Department investigations over the last several weeks and months. So I responded to that. 
And for the Department to insert itself into the political process this way I think 
would have had grave consequences for the country. It may very well have spiraled us into a constitutional crisis. 
Mrs. L URIA . We know from our investigation that President 
Trump offered Jeff Clark the position of Acting Attorney General and that Jeff Clark had decided to accept it. 
The only reason this ultimately did not happen is that the White 
House Counsel and a number of Justice Department officials con-fronted the President in the Oval Office and threatened mass res-ignations. 
Mr. D ONOGHUE . And then—and I said something to the effect of, ‘‘You’re going 
to have a huge personnel blowout within hours, because you’re going to have all kinds of problems with resignations and other issues, and that’s not going to be in anyone’s interest.’’ 
Mrs. L URIA . The President ultimately relented, only because the 
entire leadership of the Department of Justice, as well as his White House Counsel, threatened to resign. 
Mr. Chairman, I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentlewoman yields back. 
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Florida, Mrs. Mur-
phy, for an opening statement. 
Mrs. M URPHY . Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
President Trump’s efforts to unlawfully overturn the results of 
the 2020 election were not limited to the Big Lie and pressuring State officials and the Department of Justice officials. Another key part of the President’s effort was a scheme to assemble fake elec-
tors to cast false electoral votes in the States that President Trump lost. 
This was something done not only with the President’s knowl-
edge but also with his direct participation. Ronna McDaniel, chair of the Republican National Committee, testified before this Com-mittee that President Trump and his attorney Dr. John Eastman  18 
called her and asked her to arrange for the fake electors to meet 
and rehearse the process of casting their fake votes. 
Ms. M CDANIEL . When I received the call—again, I don’t remember the exact 
date—it was from the White House switchboard, and it was President Trump who had contacted me. 
Mr. W
OOD. And did President Trump have anyone else on the line with him? 
Ms. M CDANIEL . He introduced me to a gentleman named John Eastman. So I 
vaguely remember him mentioning that he was a professor, and then essentially he turned the call over to Mr. Eastman, who then proceeded to talk about the impor-tance of the RNC helping the campaign gather these contingent electors in case any of the legal challenges that were ongoing changed the result of any of the States. 
Mrs. M URPHY . These fake electors were ultimately part of the 
President’s plan to replace genuine Biden electors with Trump elec-tors on January 6th. As part of this plan, the false electoral slates were sent to the National Archives and to the Capitol. 
The ‘‘fake electors’’ plan was also tied to another plan: the coer-
cive pressure campaign to make Vice President Mike Pence reject or refuse to count certain Biden electoral votes so that President Donald Trump would ‘‘win’’ reelection instead. 
Here is what Vice President Pence has said about this scheme. 
Vice President P ENCE . President Trump said I had the right to overturn the elec-
tion, but President Trump is wrong. I had no right to overturn the election. The Presidency belongs to the American people and the American people alone. And, frankly, there is no idea more un-American than the notion that any one person could choose the American President. 
Mrs. M URPHY . Make no mistake: President Trump knew that 
what he was demanding Vice President Pence do was illegal. He was informed of this repeatedly and specifically on January 4th. 
Even his lawyer John Eastman admitted in front of President 
Trump that this plan would break the law by violating the Elec-toral Count Act. 
Mr. W OOD. Did John Eastman ever admit, as far as you know, in front of the 
President that his proposal would violate the Electoral Count Act? 
Mr. J ACOB . I believe he did on the 4th. 
Mrs. M URPHY . Dr. Eastman confirmed this in writing. Recall this 
email, written on January 6th, in which Vice President Pence’s counsel asked Dr. Eastman, ‘‘Did you advise the President that in your professional judgment the Vice President does not have the power to decide things unilaterally?’’ Dr. Eastman replied, ‘‘He’s been so advised.’’ 
Of course, President Trump’s own White House Counsel, Pat 
Cipollone, also recognized that this plan was unlawful. Here is Mr. Cipollone’s testimony. 
Mr. C IPOLLONE . My view is that the Vice President didn’t have the legal authority 
to do anything except what he did. 
Mrs. M URPHY . There is no doubt that President Trump’s pres-
sure campaign on Vice President Pence was significant. 
On the morning of January 6th, President Trump called the Vice 
President from the Oval Office and demanded that he overturn the results of the election. Numerous witnesses told the Select Com-mittee about the invective that President Trump leveled at his own Vice President.  19 
Mr. L UNA. Something to the effect—this is—the wording’s wrong—‘‘I made the 
wrong decision 4 or 5 years ago.’’ 
Mr. T ONOLLI . And the word that she relayed to you that the President called the 
Vice President—I apologize for being impolite, but do you remember what she said her father called him? 
Ms. R
ADFORD . The P word. 
Mrs. M URPHY . But Vice President Pence didn’t waver, even when 
his own life was endangered by President Trump and the rioters at the Capitol on January 6th, as you’ll see in more detail later. 
A Federal judge concluded, based on this and other evidence, 
that President Trump’s pressure campaign against the Vice Presi-dent likely violated multiple criminal statutes. 
In the end, all these people—Department of Justice officials, 
State elections officials, his own Vice President—stood strong in the face of President Trump’s immense pressure. 
But, as we now know, President Trump had already summoned 
tens of thousands of his supporters to Washington on January 6th to ‘‘take back’’ their country. 
On December 19th, President Trump first told his supporters to 
come to Washington. In this and numerous other tweets, he fraud-ulently and repeatedly promoted January 6th as the day Americans could come and change the election outcome. 
For weeks, President Trump worked with others to plan the 
rally, intending all along that he would send an assembled crowd of angry supporters to the Capitol after his speech on the Ellipse on January 6th. 
We obtained a text message that one rally organizer sent on Jan-
uary 4th. In part, it reads that ‘‘POTUS is going to have us march there/the Capitol’’ and ‘‘POTUS is going to just call for it ‘unexpect-edly.’ ’’ 
Again, each of these examples—the Big Lie, the pressure cam-
paigns against State officials, the pressure campaign against the Department of Justice and his Vice President, the fake electors, summoning the mob—all of this demonstrates President Trump’s 
personal and substantial role in the plot to overturn the election. He was intimately involved. He was the central player. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentlewoman yields back. 
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California, Mr. Schiff, 
for an opening statement. 
Mr. S CHIFF . Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
In our past hearings, you have seen direct evidence that Presi-
dent Trump sent a crowd of his supporters to the Capitol on Janu-ary 6th knowing they were armed and angry. This was the last, most desperate and dangerous prong of his plan to disrupt the joint session and prevent the orderly transition of power. 
On the morning of the 6th, the Secret Service was at the Ellipse 
screening the members of the crowd as they entered the rally site, and they noticed something significant about the crowd: Tens of thousands of people were outside the rally site but did not want to go through the magnetometers, the metal detectors that were used to screen for dangerous weapons.  20 
Since our last hearings, the Select Committee has received great-
er cooperation from the Secret Service. Nevertheless, the Secret Service text messages from this period were erased in the days and months following the attack on the Capitol, even though documents and materials related to January 6th had already been requested by the Department of Justice and Congress. 
But we were able to obtain nearly 1 million emails, recordings, 
and other electronic records from the Secret Service. Over the month of August, the Select Committee began its review of hun-dreds of thousands of pages and multiple hours of that material, providing substantial new evidence about what happened on Janu-ary 6th and the days leading up to it. That review continues. 
What you are about to hear is just a sample of the new and rel-
evant evidence that we have received. 
Mounting evidence before January 6th predicted violence—and 
not just violence generally but violence directed at the Capitol. In-telligence about this risk was directly available to the U.S. Secret Service and others in the White House in advance of the Ellipse speech, in advance of the march to the Capitol. The Committee has shown evidence that President Trump was aware of the risk of vio-lence. 
The FBI, U.S. Capitol Police, Metropolitan Police, and other 
agencies all gathered and disseminated intelligence suggesting the possibility of violence at the Capitol prior to the riot. 
We are now going to show you just a sample of the evidence we 
have received. 
Days before January 6th, the President’s senior advisors at the 
Department of Justice and FBI, for example, received an intel-ligence summary that included material indicating that certain people traveling to Washington were making plans to attack the Capitol. 
This summary noted online ‘‘calls to occupy Federal buildings’’; 
rhetoric about ‘‘invading the Capitol Building’’; and plans to ‘‘arm themselves and to engage in political violence at the event.’’ 
Other agencies were also hearing predictions suggesting possible 
violence at the Capitol. On a call with President Trump’s White House national security staff in early January 2021, Deputy Sec-retary of Defense David Norquist had warned about the potential that the Capitol would be the target of the attack. 
Here is General Mark Milley, who was also present for this call, 
describing Deputy Secretary Norquist’s warning. 
General M ILLEY . So, during these calls—I only remember in hindsight because he 
was almost, like, clairvoyant. Norquist says during one of these calls, ‘‘The greatest threat is a direct assault on the Capitol.’’ I’ll never forget it. 
Mr. S CHIFF . This email, for example, was an alert that the Secret 
Service received on December 24th with the heading ‘‘Armed and Ready, Mr. President.’’ According to the intelligence, multiple users online were targeting Members of Congress, instructing others to ‘‘march into the chambers’’ on January 6th and ‘‘make sure they know who to fear.’’ 
In this report, received on December 26th, a Secret Service field 
office relayed a tip that had been received by the FBI. According to the source of the tip, the Proud Boys planned to march, armed, into DC.  21 
‘‘They think that they will have a large enough group to march 
into D.C. armed,’’ the source reported, ‘‘and will outnumber the po-lice so they can’t be stopped.’’ The source went on to say, ‘‘Their plan is to literally kill people. Please, please take this tip seriously and investigate further.’’ 
The source also made clear that ‘‘the Proud Boys had detailed 
their plans on multiple websites,’’ like the TheDonald.win. 
Let’s pause here. The Secret Service had advance information, 
more than 10 days beforehand, regarding the Proud Boys’ planning for January 6th. We know now, of course, that the Proud Boys and others did lead the assault on our Capitol Building. 
On December 31st, agents circulated intelligence reports that 
‘‘President Trump supporters have proposed a movement to occupy Capitol Hill.’’ In particular, they flagged spikes in violent hashtags like ‘‘We Are the Storm,’’ ‘‘1776 Rebel,’’ and ‘‘Occupy Capitols.’’ 
On January 5th, a Secret Service Open Source Unit flagged a so-
cial media account on TheDonald.win that threatened to ‘‘bring a sniper rifle’’ to a rally on January 6th. The user also posted a pic-ture of a handgun and rifle with the caption ‘‘Sunday Gun Day Pro-viding Overwatch January 6th Will be Wild!’’ 
Later on the evening of January 5th, the Secret Service learned 
during an FBI briefing that right-wing groups were establishing armed QRFs, or quick reaction forces, readying to deploy for Janu-ary 6th. Groups like the Oath Keepers were ‘‘standing by at the ready should POTUS request assistance’’ by invoking the Insurrec-tion Act, agents were informed. 
As we all know now, the Oath Keepers did play a specific role 
on January 6th and had stashed weapons in Virginia for further violence that evening. 
Also on that day, the Secret Service was readying its security 
precautions for the President’s speech at the Ellipse the next day. A Secret Service deputy chief instructed agents to add certain ob-jects to the list of items that would be prohibited at the rally site, including ‘‘ballistic vests, tactical vests (armored or not), and bal-listic helmets.’’ 
By the morning of January 6th, it was clear that the Secret Serv-
ice anticipated violence. It felt like the ‘‘calm before the storm,’’ one agent predicted in a Protective Intelligence Division chat group. Another remarked how agents were ‘‘watching the crazies’’ on livestream. 
By 9:09 that morning, the Secret Service could also see that 
many rally-goers were assembled outside the security perimeter. One agent emailed, ‘‘Possibly [because] they have stuff that couldn’t come through? Would probably be an issue with this crowd. Just a thought.’’ 
By 9:30 that morning, agents reported more than 25,000 people 
outside the rally site. An hour later, the Secret Service reported that the crowd was ‘‘on The Mall watching but not in line.’’ 
The head of the President’s Secret Service protective detail, Rob-
ert Engel, was specifically aware of the large crowds outside the magnetometers. He passed that information along to Tony Ornato, who worked for Mark Meadows in the chief of staff’s office. 
The documents we obtained from the Secret Service make clear 
that the crowd outside the magnetometers was armed and the  22 
agents knew it. Take a look at what they were seeing and hearing 
on the ground. 
One report from the rally site at 7:58 a.m. said, ‘‘Some members 
of the crowd are wearing ballistic helmets, body armor, carrying radio equipment and military-grade backpacks.’’ 
Another, from 9:30 a.m., said that there were ‘‘possibly OC 
spray,’’ meaning pepper spray, ‘‘and/or plastic riot shields.’’ 
At 11:23 a.m., agents also reported ‘‘possible armed individuals, 
one with a Glock, one with a rifle.’’ 
Over the next hour, agents reported ‘‘possible man with a gun 
reporte d... confirmed pistol on hip, located in a tre e...’ ’  and 
‘‘one detained at 14th and I Street NW. Individual had an assault rifle on his person.’’ 
Minutes before President Trump began his speech, members of 
the Federal Protective Service, an agency tasked with protecting Federal buildings, were alerted about an arrest of a protester with a gun on his waistband. 
During the speech, the weapons-related arrests continued. At 
12:13 p.m., United States Park Police arrested a man with a rifle in front of the World War II Memorial. 
These agents remarked on the number of weapons that had been 
seized that day, speculating that the situation could get worse. ‘‘With so many weapons found so far, you wonder how many are unknown,’’ one agent wrote at 12:36 p.m. ‘‘Could be sporty after dark.’’ 
At 12:47 p.m., another agent responded, ‘‘No doubt. The people 
at the Ellipse said they are moving to the Capitol after the POTUS speech.’’ 
As the documents we received make clear, the Secret Service was 
aware of weapons possessed by those gathered at rallies in DC as early as the evening before. 
Take this document, for instance, which details multiple arrests 
in the crowds demonstrating on January 5th. Those arrests were for weapons offenses—handguns, high-capacity feeding devices, am-munition. 
What the Secret Service saw on the 6th was entirely consistent 
with the violent rhetoric circulating in the days before the joint ses-sion on pro-Trump websites, at times amplified by the President’s own advisors. 
One of these sites, as you have heard, was called TheDonald.win. 
The Select Committee has obtained a text message that Jason Mil-ler, a senior communications advisor, sent to Mark Meadows less than a week before January 6th. ‘‘I got the base FIRED UP,’’ he wrote in all caps. 
He sent a link to this page on TheDonald.win. The linked web 
page had comments about the joint session of Congress on January 6th. Take a look at some of those comments: 
‘‘Gallows don’t require electricity.’’ ‘‘If the filthy commie maggots try to push their fraud through, 
there will be hell to pay.’’ 
‘‘Our ‘lawmakers’ in Congress can leave one of two ways: 1. In 
a bodybag. 2. After rightfully certifying Trump the winner.’’ 
Mr. Miller claimed that he had no idea about the hundreds of 
comments like these in the link that he sent to Mark Meadows.  23 
Mr. J ASON MILLER . If I had seen something like that, I probably would’ve flipped 
it to someone at the White—or, if I had seen something of that nature, I would’ve said, you know, flag this for Secret Service or something of that nature. 
Mr. S CHIFF . But the Trump administration was aware of this 
type of violent rhetoric prior to January 6th. In fact, as we have seen, the Secret Service and other agencies knew of the prospect of violence well in advance of the President’s speech at the Ellipse. 
Despite this, certain White House and Secret Service witnesses 
previously testified that they had received no intelligence about vi-olence that could have potentially threatened any of the protectees on January 6th, including the Vice President. Evidence strongly suggests that this testimony is not credible, and the Committee is reviewing additional material from the Secret Service and other sources. 
The Secret Service was monitoring this kind of online activity 
and was sharing and receiving the results of that effort. They worked closely with other agencies, sharing intelligence about the joint session of Congress derived from social media and other sources. 
The same day Jason Miller sent his text message, agents re-
ceived reports about a spike in activity on another platform called Parler. This was December 30th. 
In this email, an agent received a report noting ‘‘a lot of violent 
rhetoric on Parler directed at government people [and] entities,’’ in-cluding Secret Service protectees. One of these protectees was Vice President Pence, perhaps the primary target of President Trump’s pressure campaign in the days leading up to January 6th. 
The day before the joint session, on January 5th, Secret Service 
was aware of increased ‘‘chatter focused on Vice President Pence’’— in particular, whether he would do what President Trump wanted him to do: reverse the results of the election in the joint session the next day, January 6th. 
On the morning of the 6th, agents received alerts of online 
threats that Vice President Pence would be ‘‘a dead man walking if he doesn’t do the right thing.’’ Another agent reported, ‘‘I saw several other alerts saying they will storm the Capitol if he doesn’t do the right thing.’’ 
The anger reflected in these postings was obvious to the man at 
the center of the storm on January 6th—President Trump. 
On the evening of January 5th, President Trump gathered a few 
of his communications staffers in the Oval Office. The door was 
open, allowing the President and others assembled there to hear the sounds of the crowd gathered at Freedom Plaza just a few blocks from the White House. President Trump could tell that his supporters were riled up. 
Here again is Judd Deere, a deputy White House press secretary, 
describing the President’s reaction. 
Mr. D EERE . He fairly quickly moved to how fired up the crowd is—or was going 
to be. 
Mr. W OOD. Okay. And what did he say about it? 
Mr. D EERE . Just that they were fired up, they were angry, they feel like the elec-
tion has been stolen, that the election was rigged, that—he went on and on about that for a little bit. 
Mr. S CHIFF . Yes, the President knew the crowd was angry—be-
cause he had stoked that anger. He knew that they believed that  24 
the election had been rigged and stolen—because he had told them, 
falsely, that it had been rigged and stolen. 
By the time he incited that angry mob to march on the Capitol, 
he knew they were armed and dangerous—all the better to stop the peaceful transfer of power. 
Mr. Chairman, I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentleman yields back. 
At this point in our meeting, we will take a brief recess. Pursu-
ant to the order of the Committee of today, the Chair declares the Committee in recess for a period of approximately 10 minutes. 
[Accordingly, at 2:27 p.m., the Committee recessed until 2:43 
p.m., when it was called to order by the Chairman.] 
Chairman T
HOMPSON . The Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California, Mr. Aguilar, for an opening statement. 
Mr. A GUILAR . Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
On the morning of January 6th, President Trump knew that the 
crowd was angry. He knew that they were armed and dangerous. And he knew that they were going to the Capitol. 
It is important to understand the lengths the President was will-
ing to go to physically be at the Capitol because it was part of his strategy to disrupt Congress and to stay in power. 
As the time for the Ellipse rally approached, an email was cir-
culated among intelligence officials, including a Secret Service in-telligence official, attaching communications among rally-goers that specifically contemplated violence. 
‘‘Trump has given us marching orders,’’ one post on 
TheDonald.win wrote. ‘‘Basically, if you’re east of the Mississippi, you can and should be there.’’ ‘‘ADVANCE ON THE CAPITAL!’’ ‘‘Keep your guns hidde n... Don’t fuck around, full kits, 180 
rounds minimum for main rifle, another 50 for sidearm, per per-son.’’ 
What is clear from this record is that the White House had more 
than enough warning to warrant stopping any plan for an Ellipse rally and certainly for stopping any march to the Capitol. 
As evidence from our prior hearings has suggested, the President 
was aware of this information. 
But, despite awareness of the potential for violence and weapons 
among the crowd, the Ellipse event nevertheless went forward, and Donald Trump instructed the angry crowd, some of whom were armed, to march to the Capitol. 
As my colleague Mr. Schiff just described, the Secret Service re-
ported that thousands in the crowd near the Washington Monu-ment would not enter the rally area because magnetometers used in screening attendees would detect any prohibited items they car-ried. Mr. Trump knew this. The Secret Service had told him about it that morning. 
Even in spite of these warnings, Cassidy Hutchinson overheard 
the President say this shortly before he took the stage: 
Ms. H UTCHINSON . He wanted it full, and he was angry that we weren’t letting 
people through the mags with weapons—what the Secret Service deemed as weap-ons and are—are weapons. 
I was in the vicinity of a conversation where I overheard the President say some-
thing to the effect of, you know, ‘‘I don’t F’ing care that they have weapons. They’re not here to hurt me. Take the F’ing mags away. Let my people in. They can march to the Capitol from here. Let the people in. Take the F’ing mags away.’’  25 
Mr. A GUILAR . When he went onstage, President Trump himself 
asked law enforcement to let his supporters into the rally site. 
President T RUMP . And I’d love to have—if those tens of thousands of people would 
be allowed. The military, the Secret Service. And we want to thank you and the po-lice law enforcement. Great—you’re doing a great job. But I’d love it if they could be allowed to come up here with us. Is that possible? Can you just let them come up, please? 
Mr. A GUILAR . President Trump then told his supporters to march 
to the Capitol. 
Let’s pause at this point to consider President Trump’s state of 
mind, his motivation at this moment. 
By that point, it was known to Secret Service that members of 
the crowd were armed. President Trump had been told. There was no doubt that President Trump knew what he was going to do— sending an angry mob, a number of whom were clad in tactical gear and military garb, armed with various weapons, to the Cap-itol. 
There is no scenario where that action is benign, and there is no 
scenario where an American President should have engaged in that conduct. It did not matter whether President Trump believed the election had been stolen or not; this could not be justified on any 
basis, for any reason. 
You may also recall testimony from our summer hearings regard-
ing Mr. Trump’s efforts to lead the mob to the Capitol himself and his angry altercation in the Presidential SUV when the Secret Service told him it was far too dangerous for him to go. 
As we detailed in testimony from the Metropolitan Police and 
White House personnel during our July 21st hearing, information about the altercation was widely known—so widely known that one former White House employee with national security responsibil-ities explained that this information was, in fact, water-cooler talk in the White House complex. As that professional told us, they re-member hearing in the days after January 6th ‘‘how angry the President was’’ when he was in the limo that afternoon. 
That professional also testified that they were specifically in-
formed of the President’s ‘‘irate’’ behavior in the SUV by Mr. Ornato in Mr. Ornato’s office. ‘‘It was Mr. Enge l... with Mr. 
Ornato in that office.’’ ‘‘They had expressed to me that the Presi-dent was irate, you know, on the drive up.’’ Mr. Engel ‘‘did not deny the fact that the President was irate.’’ 
That, of course, corresponds closely with the testimony you saw 
this summer from Cassidy Hutchinson, a Metropolitan Police Offi-cer who was in the motorcade, and from multiple sources. 
Additionally, after concluding its review of the voluminous addi-
tional Secret Service communications from January 5th and Janu-ary 6th, the Committee will be recalling witnesses and conducting further investigative depositions based on that material. Following that activity, we will provide even greater detail in our final report. 
I will also note this: The Committee is reviewing testimony re-
garding potential obstruction on this issue, including testimony about advice given not to tell the Committee about this specific topic. We will address this matter in our report. 
We also want to remind you now of how security professionals 
working in the White House complex and who reported to national  26 
security officials responded when they learned that Mr. Trump in-
tended to lead the mob to the Capitol. 
SECURITY PROFESSIONAL . To be completely honest, we were all in a state of shock. 
Ms. D AYANANDA . Because why? 
SECURITY PROFESSIONAL . Because it just—one, I think the actual physical feasi-
bility of doing it, and then, also, we all knew what that implicated and what that meant: that this was no longer a rally, that this was going to move to something else if he physically walked to the Capitol. I don’t know if you want to use the word ‘‘insurrection,’’ ‘‘coup,’’ whatever. We all knew that this would move from a normal, democratic, you know, public event into something else. 
Why were we alarmed? Ms. D
AYANANDA . Right. 
SECURITY PROFESSIONAL . The President wanted to lead tens of thousands of peo-
ple to the Capitol. I think that was enough grounds for us to be alarmed. 
Mr. A GUILAR . President Trump was still considering traveling to 
the Capitol even after returning to the White House. He knew well before 2 p.m. that a violent riot was underway at the Capitol. He was aware of the ongoing lawlessness. But his motorcade was held on West Executive Avenue, outside the White House, because he still wanted to join the crowd. 
Here is Kayleigh McEnany, the White House press secretary, de-
scribing an exchange she had with the President as soon as he ar-rived back at the White House. 
Ms. M CENANY . So, to the best of my recollection, I recall him being—wanting to— 
saying that he wanted to physically walk and be a part of the march and then say-ing that he would ride the Beast if he needed to, ride in the Presidential limo. 
Mr. A GUILAR . From the Secret Service, the Select Committee has 
also obtained important new evidence on this issue. It shows how frantic this hour must have been for the Secret Service, scrambling to get the President of the United States to back down from a dan-gerous and reckless decision that put people in harm’s way. 
Take a look at this Secret Service email from 1:19 p.m. on Janu-
ary 6th, the minute that President Trump got out of the Presi-dential vehicle back at the White House. 
As soon as the President left his motorcade, leadership from the 
Secret Service contacted Bobby Engel, the lead agent for the Presi-dential detail, and warned him that they were ‘‘concerned about an OTR’’—an off-the-record movement—‘‘to the Capitol.’’ 
The people sworn to protect the safety of the President of the 
United States, and who routinely put themselves in harm’s way, were convinced that this was a bad idea. 
Secret Service documents also reveal how agents were poised to 
take President Trump to the Capitol later that afternoon. Agents were instructed to don their protective gear and prepare for a movement. A few minutes later, they were told the President would leave for the Capitol in 2 hours. 
It wasn’t until 1:55 p.m. that the President’s lead Secret Service 
agent told them to stand down. ‘‘We are not doing an OTR to [the Capitol].’’ By then, rioters had breached the Capitol and were vio-lently attacking the efforts of the brave men and women in law en-forcement trying to resist the mob. 
President Trump may not have gone to the Capitol on January 
6th, but what he did from the White House cannot be justified. While congressional leaders, both Democrats and Republicans, worked with Vice President Pence to try and address the violence,  27 
President Trump refused urgent pleas for help from nearly every-
one around him, and what he did do only made the situation worse. 
Mr. Chairman, I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentleman yields back. 
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Maryland, Mr. Raskin, 
for an opening statement. 
Mr. R ASKIN . Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
The President was still exhorting his supporters at the Ellipse to 
go ‘‘fight like hell’’ at 12:50, around the time that the first wave of rioters first breached barricades defending the Capitol. 
Secret Service documents we recently received give a time line 
of precisely what the White House knew and when. 
At 1:19, the President’s emergency operations center sent an 
email to Secret Service, national security, and military advisors to the President and Vice President, informing them that ‘‘hundreds of Trump supporters stormed through metal barricades at the back of the Capitol Building about 1 p.m. Wednesday, running past se-curity guards and breaking fences.’’ 
When the President returned to the White House around 1:20, he 
entered the Oval Office and was told right then about the onset of violence at the Capitol. 
From that point until approximately 4 p.m., over the next 2 
hours and 40 minutes, the President stayed in the White House dining room attached to the Oval Office and watched this unprece-dented assault take place at the Capitol. 
We have testimony from several members of the President’s 
White House staff establishing that President Trump refused en-treaties from his closest advisors and family members to tell his supporters to stand down and leave the Capitol. 
Here is the testimony of President Trump’s White House Coun-
sel, Pat Cipollone. 
Mr. C IPOLLONE . I can’t talk about conversations with the President, but I can ge-
nerically say that I said, you know, people need to be told, there needs to be a public announcement, fast, that they need to leave the Capitol. 
Vice Chair C
HENEY . And, Pat, could you let us know approximately when you said 
that? 
Mr. C IPOLLONE . Approximately when? Almost immediately after I found out peo-
ple were getting into the Capitol or approaching the Capitol in a way that was vio-lent. 
Vice Chair C
HENEY . Who on the staff did not want people to leave the Capitol? 
Mr. C IPOLLONE . On the staff? 
Vice Chair C HENEY . In the White House. 
Mr. C IPOLLONE . I can’t think of anybody, you know, on that day who didn’t want 
people to get out of the Capitol, particularly once the violence started. No. I mean—— 
Mr. S
CHIFF . What about the President? 
Vice Chair C HENEY . Yes. 
Mr. C IPOLLONE . Well, she said the staff. So I answered. 
Vice Chair C HENEY . No, I said in the White House. 
Mr. C IPOLLONE . Oh, I’m sorry. I apologize. I thought you said who else on the 
staff. 
Yes. I can’t reveal communications. But, obviously, I think, you know—yes. 
Mr. R ASKIN . Mr. Cipollone’s testimony is corroborated by mul-
tiple other White House staff members, including Cassidy Hutch-inson. Here is Ms. Hutchinson describing what she heard from Mark Meadows.  28 
Ms. H UTCHINSON . He had said something to the effect of, you know, ‘‘You heard 
him, Pat. He doesn’t want to do anything more. He doesn’t think they’re doing any-thing wrong.’’ 
Mr. R ASKIN . A former White House employee with national secu-
rity duties similarly recalled an exchange between Mr. Cipollone and Eric Herschmann about President Trump’s inaction against the mob assault underway at the Capitol. ‘‘Mr. Herschman n... said something to Mr. Cipollone. He seemed to 
relay that, you know, the President didn’t want anything done.’’ 
Throughout this period, some of the President’s most important 
political allies, family members, and senior staff all begged him to tell his supporters to disperse and go home. They included Sean Hannity; Laura Ingraham and other allies at Fox News; his son, Donald Trump, Jr.; the House Minority Leader, Kevin McCarthy; others in Congress; and officials in the Cabinet and Executive branch. All of them made appeals to Donald Trump, which he re-jected and he ignored. 
The Select Committee interviewed several people who were in 
the dining room with Donald Trump that afternoon, and every sin-gle one of these witnesses told us that he was watching the violent battles rage on television. He did not call his Secretary of Defense or the National Guard, the chief of the Capitol Police, or the chief of the Metropolitan Police Department. 
Mr. W OOD. And, to your knowledge, was the President in that private dining room 
the whole time that the attack on the Capitol was going on? Or did he ever go— again, only to your knowledge—to the Oval Office, to the White House Situation Room, anywhere else? 
Ms. M
CENANY . To the best of my recollection, he was always in the dining room. 
Mr. H EAPHY . What did they say, Mr. Meadows or the President, at all, during 
that brief encounter that you were in the dining room? What do you recall? 
General K ELLOGG . I think they were—everybody was watching the TV. 
Ms. A PECECHEA . Do you know whether he was watching TV in the dining room 
when you talked to him on January 6th? 
Ms. M ICHAEL . It’s my understanding he was watching television. 
Mr. H EAPHY . When you were in the dining room, in these discussions, was the 
violence at the Capitol visible on the screen, on the television? 
Mr. C IPOLLONE . Yes. 
Mr. R ASKIN . As the President watched the bloody attack unfold 
on Fox News from his dining room, Members of Congress and other Government officials stepped in to the gigantic leadership void cre-ated by the President’s chilling and studied passivity that day. 
What you are about to see is previously unseen footage of con-
gressional leaders, both Republicans and Democrats, as they were taken to a secure location during the riot. 
You will see how everyone involved was working actively to stop 
the violence, to get Federal law enforcement deployed to the scene to put down the violence and secure the Capitol complex—not just Democrats like Speaker Nancy Pelosi and House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, but Republicans like Vice President Pence, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Majority Whip John Thune, and countless other appointees across the administration.  29 
All of them did what President Trump was not doing, what he 
simply refused to do. Take a listen. 
VOICE . We’re starting to get surrounded. They’re taking the North Front scaf-
folding. 
VOICE . Unless we get more munitions, we are not gonna be able to hold. 
VOICE . A door has been breached, and people are gaining access into the Capitol. 
Speaker P ELOSI . Well, you know what? We have got to finish the proceedings, or 
else they’re going to have a complete victory. 
CROWD . U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A! 
VOICE . Senator Schumer is at a secure location, and they’re locked down in the 
Senate. 
Speaker P ELOSI . There has to be some way we can maintain the sense that people 
have that there is some security or some confidence that government can function and that we can elect the President of the United States. 
Did we go back into session? V
OICE . We did go back into session, but now apparently everybody on the floor 
is putting on tear gas masks to prepare for a breach. I’m trying to get more informa-tion. 
Speaker P
ELOSI . They’re putting on their—— 
VOICE . Tear gas masks. 
Speaker P ELOSI . Do you believe this? Do you believe this? 
VOICE . I can’t. 
VOICE . We need an area for the House Members. They’re all walking over now 
through the tunnels. 
CROWD . Bring her out! Bring her out here! We’re coming in if you don’t bring her 
out! 
Senator S CHUMER . I’m going to call up the F’ing Secretary of DOD. 
We have some Senators who are still in their hideaways. They need massive per-
sonnel now. Can you get the Maryland National Guard to come too? 
Speaker P ELOSI . I have something to say, Mr. Secretary. I’m gonna call the Mayor 
of Washington, DC, right now and see what other outreach she has, other police de-partments, as Steny—Leader Hoyer has mentioned. 
V
OICE . Officer down. Get him up. Get him up. 
VOICE . Hold up. 
VOICE . Get him up. 
VOICE . Hold up. 
Speaker P ELOSI . Hi, Governor. This is Nancy. Governor, I don’t know if you have 
been approached about the Virginia National Guard. Mr. Hoyer was speaking to Governor Hogan. But I still think you probably need the okay of the Federal Gov-ernment in order to come into another jurisdiction? Thank you. 
Oh, my gosh. They’re just breaking windows. They’re doing all kinds of—it’s real-
ly—that somebody—they said somebody was shot. It’s just—it’s just horrendous. And all at the instigation of the President of the United States. 
Okay, thank you, Governor. I appreciate what you’re doing. And, if you don’t 
mind, I’d like to stay in touch. Thank you. Thank you. Bye-bye. 
Senator S
CHUMER . The Virginia Guard has been called in. 
Speaker P ELOSI . Yes, I was just talking to Governor Northam. And what he said 
is, they sent 200 of State police and a unit of the National Guard. 
They’re breaking windows and going in, obviously ransacking our offices and all 
the rest of that. That’s nothing. The concern we have about personal harm—— 
Senator S CHUMER . Safety. 
Speaker P ELOSI . [continuing]. Personal safety is—it just transcends everything. 
But the fact is, on any given day they’re breaking the law in many different ways. And, quite frankly, much of it at the instigation of the President of the United States. And, now, if he could at least—somebody—— 
Senator S
CHUMER . Yes, why don’t you get the President to tell them to leave the 
Capitol, Mr. Attorney General, in your law enforcement responsibility? A public statement they should all leave. 
C
ROWD . U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A! U-S-A! 
Senator S CHUMER . This cannot be just we’re waiting for so-and-so. We need them 
there now, whoever you got. Okay? 
Mr. H OYER . You also have troops—this is Steny Hoyer—troops at Fort McNair, 
Andrews Air Force Base, other military bases. We need Active Duty National Guard. 
Senator S
CHUMER . How soon in the future can you have the place evacuated, you 
know, cleaned out?  30 
VOICE . I don’t want to speak for the leadership that’s going to be responsible for 
executing the operation, so I’m not gonna say that, because they’re the—on the ground and they’re the experts. 
Speaker P
ELOSI . Well, just pretend—just pretend for a moment it was the Pen-
tagon or the White House or some other entity that was under siege. And let me say, you can logistically get people there as you make the plan. 
[Crowd noise.] Speaker P
ELOSI . We’re trying to figure out how we can get this job done today. 
We talked to Mitch about it earlier—he’s not in the room right now, but he was with us earlier—and said, you know, we want to expedite this, and hopefully they could confine it to just one complaint, Arizona, and then we could vote and it would be—you know, then just move forward with the rest of the States. 
The overriding wish is to do it at the Capitol. What we are being told very directly 
is it’s gonna take days for the Capitol to be okay again. We’ve gotten a very bad report about the condition of the House floor, with defecation and all that kind of thing as well. I don’t think that that’s hard to clean up, but I do think it is more from a security standpoint of making sure that everybody is out of the building, and how long will that take? 
I just got off with the Vice President. Senator S
CHUMER . I got off with the Vice President-elect, so I’ll tell you what she 
said. 
Speaker P ELOSI . Okay. 
Senator S CHUMER . Yes. 
Speaker P ELOSI . But what we left the conversation with—because he said he had 
the impression from Mitch that Mitch wants to get everybody back to do it there. 
Senator S CHUMER . Yes. 
Speaker P ELOSI . I said, well, we’re getting a counterpoint that it could take time 
to clean up the poo-poo that they’re making all over the—literally and figuratively— in the Capitol and that it may take days to get back. 
Vice President P
ENCE . Yes. So I’m at the Capitol Building. I’m literally standing 
with the chief of police of the U.S. Capitol Police. He just informed me what you will hear through official channels. Paul Irving, your Sergeant-at-Arms, will inform you that their best information is that they believe that the House and the Senate will be able to reconvene in roughly an hour. 
Senator S
CHUMER . Good news. 
Vice President P ENCE . So your Sergeant-at-Arms will be in touch about the proc-
ess for getting Members back in the building. 
Speaker P ELOSI . Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good news. 
Mr. R ASKIN . In this video, you just saw Senator Chuck Schumer 
urging Acting Attorney General Jeff Rosen to get President Trump to call off the rioters. Of course, Acting AG Rosen did take action to defend the Government, as did many other officials. But congres-sional leadership recognized on a bipartisan basis that President Trump was the only person who could get the mob to end its vio-lent siege of the Congress, leave the Capitol, and go home. 
Here is Senator McConnell speaking after January 6th about 
how President Trump abandoned his duties and failed to do his job. 
Senator M CCONNELL . It was obvious that only President Trump could end this. 
He was the only one who could. Former aides publicly begged him to do so. Loyal allies frantically called the administration. 
The President did not act swiftly. He did not do his job. He didn’t take steps so 
Federal law could be faithfully executed and order restored. No. 
Mr. R ASKIN . In the midst of this violent chaos, Kevin McCarthy 
implored Donald Trump to tell his supporters in the mob to leave the Capitol. When that didn’t work, McCarthy called Trump’s adult children to try to get them to intercede with Trump to call off the insurrectionary violence. 
In our prior hearings, we showed you a description of what 
McCarthy told Republican Congresswoman Jaime Herrera Beutler about his conversation with Trump during the violence. Another witness, Mick Mulvaney, President Trump’s former chief of staff, 
has also come forward and corroborated her shocking account.  31 
Ms. H ERRERA BEUTLER . You know, I asked Kevin McCarthy, who’s the Republican 
Leader, about this. And he said he called Donald—he finally got through to Donald Trump, and he said, ‘‘You have got to get on TV, you’ve got to get on Twitter, you’ve got to call these people off.’’ 
And you know what the President said to him? This is as it’s happening. He said, 
‘‘Well, Kevin, these aren’t my people. You know, these are—these are Antifa.’’ 
And Kevin responded and said, ‘‘No, they’re your people. They literally just came 
through my office windows, and my staff are running for cover. I mean, they’re run-ning for their lives. You need to call them off.’’ 
And the President’s response to Kevin, to me, was chilling. He said, ‘‘Well, Kevin, 
I guess they’re just more upset about the election, you know, theft than you are.’’ 
And that’s—you know, you’ve seen widespread reports of Kevin McCarthy and the 
President having basically a swearing conversation. That’s when the swearing com-menced. Because the President was basically saying, ‘‘Nah, I’m okay with this.’’ 
Mr. M ULVANEY . I had a conversation at some point in the day or week after the 
riot with Kevin McCarthy. 
And, yes, it was very similar to what Jaime had, the conversation she had retold 
about how he called and asked the President to get them to stop, and the President told him something along the lines of, ‘‘Kevin, maybe these people are just more angry about this than you are. Maybe they’re more upset.’’ I had a conversation similar to that with Kevin in the day to week after the riot. 
Mr. R ASKIN . We know how Kevin McCarthy described President 
Trump’s conduct, both in public and in private. 
Mr. M CCARTHY . The President bears responsibility for Wednesday’s attack on 
Congress by mob rioters. He should’ve immediately denounced the mob when he saw what was unfolding. These facts require immediate action by President Trump: accept his share of responsibility, quell the brewing unrest, and ensure President- elect Biden is able to successfully begin his term. 
Mr. M CCARTHY . But let be very clear to all of you, and I have been very clear 
to the President. He bears responsibility for his words and actions, no ifs, ands, or buts. 
I asked him personally today, does he hold responsibility for what happened? Does 
he feel bad about what happened? He told me he does have some responsibility for what happened. And he needs to acknowledge that. 
Mr. R ASKIN . At 2:24 p.m., knowing the deadly riot was now bear-
ing down on his own Vice President, President Trump composed and sent a tweet attacking Vice President Pence, accusing him of cowardice for not unilaterally rejecting electoral college votes for Joe Biden and simply handing Trump the Presidency. 
The impact of that tweet was foreseeable and predictable. It fur-
ther inflamed the mob, which was chanting ‘‘Hang Mike Pence,’’ and provoked them to even greater violence. This deliberate deci-sion to further enrage the mob against Vice President Pence cannot be justified by anything that President Trump might have thought about the election. 
The tweet came precisely at the time Pence’s Secret Service de-
tail was most seriously concerned for the Vice President’s physical safety. 
We have obtained new documents from the Secret Service, real- 
time chats, that underscore the threat they knew the Vice Presi-dent would be facing because of the President’s escalating incite-ment of the mob. 
After Trump’s tweet, one agent in the Secret Service’s Intel-
ligence Division immediately warned, ‘‘POTUS just tweeted about Pence. Probably not going to be good for Pence.’’  32 
Another agent reported the dramatic impact of Trump’s anti- 
Pence tweet on his followers: ‘‘POTUS said he lacked courage. Over 24,000 likes in under 2 minutes.’’ 
Employees at Twitter were nervously monitoring the situation. 
They knew that certain Twitter users were rioting at the Capitol and tweeting about it at the same time. As the afternoon pro-gressed, the company detected a surge in violent hashtags on the platform, including lines of lethal incitement like ‘‘Execute Mike Pence.’’ 
Listen to this former Twitter employee, Anika Navaroli, who first 
came to the Committee anonymously but has now bravely agreed to be named because she wants to speak out about the magnitude of the threats facing our people. 
Mr. G LICK. And you were also seeing content on the platform at that time that 
was threatening toward the Vice President? Hashtag—— 
Ms. N AVAROLI . Yes. 
Mr. G LICK [continuing]. ‘‘Execute Mike Pence’’? 
Ms. N AVAROLI . They were literally calling for his execution. 
Mr. G LICK. As this tweet was going out? 
Ms. N AVAROLI . Yes. And after, in response to this tweet too. Because I think, as 
many of Donald Trump’s tweets did, it again fanned the flames. And it was individ-uals who were already constructing gallows, who were already willing, able, and wanting to execute someone and looking for someone to be killed. Now the indi-vidual who has called upon them to begin this coup is now pointing the finger at another individual while they’re ready to do this. 
Mr. R ASKIN . Here is a small sample of the reactions that Presi-
dent Trump’s fan-the-flames tweet provoked among Capitol rioters in real time. 
VOICE . What percentage of the crowd is going to the Capitol? 
VOICE . One hundred percent. It has spread like wildfire that Pence has betrayed 
us. And everybody is marching on the Capitol, all million of us. It’s insane. 
VOICE . Mike Pence will not stick up for Donald Trump. Mike Pence, traitor. Mike 
Pence is a traitor. 
VOICE . Mike Pence has screwed us, in case you haven’t heard yet. 
VOICE . What happened? What happened? 
VOICE . I keep hearing that Mike Pence has screwed us. That’s the word. I keep 
hearing reports that Mike Pence has screwed us. 
Mr. R ASKIN . Between 2:30 and 2:35, within 10 minutes of Presi-
dent Trump’s tweet, thousands of rioters overran the line that the Metropolitan Police Force’s Civil Disturbance Unit was holding on the West Side of the Capitol. This was the first time in the history 
of the Metropolitan Police Department that a security line like that had ever been broken. President Trump’s conduct that day was so shameful and so outrageous that it prompted numerous members of the White House staff and other Trump appointees to resign. 
In prior hearings, you have heard Deputy National Security Ad-
visor Matt Pottinger and Deputy White House Press Secretary Sarah Matthews explain why they felt compelled to resign on that day. 
Since then, we have spoken to more high-ranking officials, like 
President Trump’s envoy to Northern Ireland and former Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney and Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao, who resigned after the 6th in protest of Trump’s misconduct and to dissociate themselves from his role in the violence. 
Take a listen to what they had to say. 
Mr. M ULVANEY . I was stunned by the violence and was stunned by the President’s 
apparent indifference to the violence. Now is the time for the President to be Presi- 33 
dential. I thought he failed at doing it. I thought he failed at a critical time to be 
the sort of leader that the Nation needed. 
Secretary of Transportation C HAO. I think the events at the Capitol, however they 
occurred, were shocking. And it was something that, as I mentioned in my state-ment, that I could not put aside. And at a particular point the events were such that it was impossible for me to continue, given my personal values and my philos-ophy. 
I came as an immigrant to this country. I believe in this country. I believe in a 
peaceful transfer of power. I believe in democracy. And so I was—it was a decision that I made on my own. 
Mr. R ASKIN . When security assistance began to arrive at the 
Capitol and the tide turned against the insurrection, President Trump finally gave his painfully belated instruction at 4:17 p.m. 
So after multiple hours of rioting and more than 100 serious in-
juries suffered by our law enforcement officers, the crowd finally began to disperse. Listen carefully to what they said as they de-cided to leave the Capitol. 
VOICE . I am here delivering the President’s message. Donald Trump has asked ev-
erybody to go home. That’s our order. He says, go home. He says, go home. Yes. He said to go home. 
Mr. R ASKIN . Finally, at 6:01, President Trump tweeted again, not 
to condemn the mass violence in any way but rather to excuse and glorify it. Significantly, he made it clear that he considered the vio-lence perfectly foreseeable and predictable. Check it out. 
‘‘These are the things and events that happen when a sacred 
landslide election victory is so unceremoniously and viciously stripped away from great patriots who have been badly and un-fairly treated for so long.’’ 
‘‘These are the things that happen,’’ he said, giving the whole 
game away. Trump was telling us that the Vice President, the Con-gress, and all the injured and wounded cops, some of whom are with us today, got what was coming to us. 
According to Trump, January 6th should not be a day that lives 
in shame and infamy in our history but rather in glory. ‘‘Remember this day forever!’’ he wrote proudly, as if he were talking about D- Day or the Battle of Yorktown. 
Trump did nothing to stop the deadly violence for obvious rea-
sons: He thought it was all justified, he incited it, and he supported it. 
MR. HEAPHY . Would it have been possible at any moment for the President to 
walk down to the podium in the briefing room and talk to the Nation at any time, between when you first gave him that advice at 2 o’clock and 4:17 when the video statement came out? Would that have been possible? 
Mr. C
IPOLLONE . Would it have been possible? 
MR. HEAPHY . Yes. 
Mr. C IPOLLONE . Yes, it would have been possible. 
Ms. M ATTHEWS . If the President had wanted to make a statement and address 
the American people, he could have been on camera almost instantly. 
And conversely, the White House press corps has offices that are located directly 
behind the briefing room. And so if he had wanted to make an address from the Oval Office, we could have assembled the White House press corps probably in a matter of minutes to get them into the Oval for him to do an on-camera address. 
Mr. R ASKIN . Mr. Chairman, nothing in law or fact could justify 
the President’s failure to act.  34 
Vice Chair C HENEY . And I assume you also would agree the President has a par-
ticular obligation to take care that the laws be faithfully executed? 
Mr. C IPOLLONE . That is one of the President’s obligations, correct. 
Mr. R ASKIN . Mr. Chairman, in numerous places our Constitution 
strongly opposes insurrection and rebellion. Article I gives Con-gress the power to ‘‘call forth’’ the Militia to ‘‘suppress insurrec-tions.’’ Section 3 of the 14th Amendment disqualified from holding Federal and State office anyone who has sworn an oath to defend the Constitution but betrays it by engaging in ‘‘insurrection or re-bellion.’’ 
It was President Lincoln at the start of the Civil War in 1861 
who best explained why democracy rejects insurrection. Insurrec-tion, he said, is a ‘‘war upon the first principle of popular govern-ment—the rights of the people.’’ 
American democracy belongs to all the American people, not to 
a single man. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back. 
Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentleman yields back. 
During this Committee’s first hearing, in July of last year, our 
witnesses were four police officers who helped repel the riots of January 6th. We asked them what they hoped to see the Com-mittee accomplish over the course of our investigation. 
Officer Gonell wanted to know why the rioters were made to be-
lieve that the election process was rigged. 
Officer Fanone asked us to look into the actions and activities 
that resulted in the day’s events. 
Officer Hodges was concerned about whether anyone in power 
had a role. 
Officer Dunn put it simply: Get to the bottom of what happened. We have worked for more than a year to get those answers. We 
have conducted more than a thousand interviews and depositions. We have received and reviewed hundreds of thousands of pages of documents. 
Thanks to the tireless work of our Members and investigators, 
we have left no doubt—none—that Donald Trump led an effort to upend American democracy that directly resulted in the violence of January 6th. He tried to take away the voice of the American peo-ple in choosing their President and replace the will of the voters with his will to remain in power. He is the one person at the center of the story of what happened on January 6th. 
So we want to hear from him. The Committee needs to do every-
thing in our power to tell the most complete story possible and pro-vide recommendations to help ensure nothing like January 6th ever happens again. We need to be fair and thorough and gain a full context for the evidence we have obtained. 
But the need for this Committee to hear from Donald Trump 
goes beyond our fact finding. This is a question about account-ability to the American people. He must be accountable. He is re-quired to answer for his actions. He is required to answer to those police officers who put their lives and bodies on the line to defend our democracy. He is required to answer to those millions of Ameri-cans whose votes he wanted to throw out as part of his scheme to remain in power. Whatever is underway to ensure this account- 35 
ability under law, this Committee will demand a full accounting to 
every American person of the events of January 6th. 
So it is our obligation to seek Donald Trump’s testimony. There 
is precedent in American history for Congress to compel the testi-mony of a President. There is also precedent for Presidents to pro-vide testimony and documentary evidence to congressional inves-tigators. 
We also recognize that a subpoena to a former President is a se-
rious and extraordinary action. That is why we want to take this step in full view of the American people, especially because the subject matter at issue is so important to the American people and 
the stakes are so high for our future and our democracy. 
So I recognize the Vice Chair, Ms. Cheney of Wyoming, to offer 
a resolution. 
Vice Chair C
HENEY . Mr. Chairman, pursuant to today’s notice, I 
send to the desk a Committee resolution and ask for its immediate consideration. 
Chairman T
HOMPSON . The clerk will report the resolution. 
[The clerk reported the resolution as follows:] 
COMMITTEE RESOLUTION 1  
Resolved, That the Chairman be, and is hereby, directed to subpoena Donald J. 
Trump for documents and testimony in connection with the January 6th attack on the United States Capitol pursuant to section 5(c)(4) of House Resolution 503 and clause 2(m) of rule XI of the Rules of the House of Representatives. 
Chairman T HOMPSON . The gentlewoman from Wyoming is recog-
nized on her resolution. 
Vice Chair C HENEY . Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
Mr. Chairman, our Committee now has sufficient information to 
answer many of the critical questions posed by Congress at the out-set. We have sufficient information to consider criminal referrals for multiple individuals and to recommend a range of legislative proposals to guard against another January 6th. 
But a key task remains: We must seek the testimony under oath 
of January 6th’s central player. 
More than 30 witnesses in our investigation have invoked their 
Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination, and several of those did so specifically in response to questions about their deal-ings with Donald Trump directly. 
Here are a few examples. This is Roger Stone with Oath Keepers 
at the Willard Hotel on the morning of January 6th, and here is Mr. Stone testifying before our Committee. 
Vice Chair C HENEY . Did you speak to President Trump on his private cell phone 
on either January 5th or January 6th? 
Mr. S TONE . Once again, on advice of counsel, I will assert my Fifth Amendment 
right to respectfully decline to answer your question. 
Vice Chair C HENEY . This is General Michael Flynn walking with 
Oath Keepers on December 12, 2020. Here is General Flynn’s testi-mony before our Committee. 
Mr. G EORGE . Did you, General Flynn, talk to President Trump at any point on 
January 6, 2021? 
General F LYNN . The Fifth. 
Vice Chair C HENEY . Here is John Eastman fraudulently instruct-
ing tens of thousands of angry protesters that the Vice President  36 
could change the election outcome on January 6th. Later, on this 
same day, Dr. Eastman acknowledged in writing that Donald Trump knew what he was attempting was illegal. 
Here is John Eastman testifying before our Committee. 
Mr. W OOD. Did President Trump authorize you to discuss publicly your January 
4, 2021, conversation with him? 
Mr. E ASTMAN . Fifth. 
Mr. W OOD. So is it your position that you can discuss in the media direct con-
versations you had with the President of the United States, but you will not discuss those same conversations with this Committee? 
Mr. E
ASTMAN . Fifth. 
Vice Chair C HENEY . Here is Jeff Clark, who conspired with Don-
ald Trump to corrupt the Department of Justice. President Trump wanted to appoint Jeff Clark as Acting Attorney General, and as you can see in this call log we obtained from the National Archives, he did so. Here is Mr. Clark testifying before our Committee. 
Mr. W OOD. Mr. Clark, when did you first talk directly with President Trump? 
Mr. C LARK . Fifth. 
Mr. W OOD. Mr. Clark, did you discuss with President Trump allegations of fraud 
in the 2020 election? 
Mr. C LARK . Fifth. 
Vice Chair C HENEY . Other witnesses have also gone to enormous 
lengths to avoid testifying about their dealings with Donald Trump. 
Steve Bannon has been tried and convicted by a jury of his peers 
for contempt of Congress. He is scheduled to be sentenced for this 
crime later this month. 
Criminal proceedings regarding Peter Navarro continue. Mark Meadows, Donald Trump’s former chief of staff, has re-
fused to testify based upon executive privilege. The Committee’s litigation with him continues. 
Mr. Chairman, at some point the Department of Justice may well 
unearth the facts that these and other witnesses are currently con-cealing. 
But our duty today is to our country and our children and our 
Constitution. We are obligated to seek answers directly from the man who set this all in motion, and every American is entitled to those answers so we can act now to protect our Republic. 
So this afternoon, I am offering this resolution: that the Com-
mittee direct the Chairman to issue a subpoena for relevant docu-ments and testimony under oath from Donald John Trump in con-nection with the January 6th attack on the United States Capitol. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentlewoman yields back. 
If there is no further debate, the question is on agreeing to the 
resolution. 
Those in favor will say ‘‘aye.’’ Those opposed, ‘‘no.’’ In the opinion of the Chair, the ayes have it. Vice Chair C
HENEY . Mr. Chairman, I request a recorded vote. 
Chairman T HOMPSON . A recorded vote is requested. The clerk 
will call the roll. 
[The clerk called the roll, and the result was announced as fol-
lows:]  37 
Select Committee Rollcall No. 5 
Committee Resolution 1 
Directing the Chairman to issue a subpoena to Donald J. Trump 
Agreed to: 9 ayes to 0 noes 
Members Vote 
Ms. Cheney, Vice Chair ............................................................................... Aye 
Ms. Lofgren .................................................................................................. Aye Mr. Schiff ..................................................................................................... Aye Mr. Aguilar ................................................................................................... Aye Mrs. Murphy (FL) ......................................................................................... Aye Mr. Raskin ................................................................................................... Aye Mrs. Luria .................................................................................................... Aye Mr. Kinzinger ................................................................................................ Aye Mr. Thompson (MS), Chairman ................................................................... Aye 
Chairman T HOMPSON . The resolution is agreed to. 
Without objection, a motion to reconsider is laid on the table. The Chair requests that those in the hearing room remain seated 
until the Capitol Police have escorted Members from the room. 
Without objection, the Committee stands adjourned. [Whereupon, at 3:32 p.m., the Committee was adjourned.] 
Æ 