U.S. GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 50–115 PDF 2022 BUSINESS MEETING ON A REPORT RECOM-
MENDING THAT THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTA-TIVES CITE JEFFREY B. CLARK FOR CRIMINAL CONTEMPT OF CONGRESS 
MEETING 
OF THE  
SELECT COMMITTEE TO 
INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH 
ATTACK ON THE 
UNITED STATES CAPITOL 
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
ONE HUNDRED SEVENTEENTH CONGRESS 
FIRST SESSION 
DECEMBER 1, 2021 
Serial No. 117–2 
Printed for the use of the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th 
Attack on the United States Capitol 
Available via the World Wide Web: http://www.govinfo.gov  (II) SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON 
THE UNITED STATES CAPITOL 
BENNIE G. T HOMPSON , Mississippi, Chairman 
LIZCHENEY , Wyoming, Vice Chair 
ZOELOFGREN , California 
ADAM B. S CHIFF , California 
PETE AGUILAR , California 
STEPHANIE N. M URPHY , Florida 
JAMIE RASKIN , Maryland 
ELAINE G. L URIA , Virginia 
ADAM KINZINGER , Illinois  (III) COMMITTEE STAFF 
DAVID B. B UCKLEY , Staff Director 
KRISTIN L. A MERLING , Deputy Staff Director and Chief Counsel 
HOPE GOINS , Senior Counsel to the Chairman 
JOSEPH B. M AHER , Senior Counsel to the Vice Chair 
TIMOTHY J. H EAPHY , Chief Investigative Counsel 
JAMIE FLEET , Senior Advisor 
TIMOTHY R. M ULVEY , Communications Director 
CANDYCE PHOENIX , Senior Counsel and Senior Advisor 
JOHN F. W OOD, Senior Investigative Counsel and Of Counsel to the Vice Chair 
KATHERINE B. A BRAMS , Staff Associate 
TEMIDAYO AGANGA -WILLIAMS , Senior 
Investigative Counsel 
ALEJANDRA APECECHEA , Investigative Counsel 
LISAA. B IANCO , Director of Member Services 
and Security Manager 
JEROME P. B JELOPERA , Investigator 
BRYAN BONNER , Investigative Counsel 
RICHARD R. B RUNO , Senior Administrative 
Assistant 
MARCUS CHILDRESS , Investigative Counsel 
JOHN MARCUS CLARK , Security Director 
JACQUELINE N. C OLVETT , Digital Director 
HEATHER I. C ONNELLY , Professional Staff 
Member 
MEGHAN E. C ONROY , Investigator 
HEATHER L. C ROWELL , Printer Proofreader 
WILLIAM C. D ANVERS , Senior Researcher 
SOUMYALATHA DAYANANDA , Senior 
Investigative Counsel 
STEPHEN W. D EVINE, Senior Counsel 
LAWRENCE J. E AGLEBURGER , Professional 
Staff Member 
KEVIN S. E LLIKER , Investigative Counsel 
MARGARET E. E MAMZADEH , Staff Associate 
SADALLAH A. F ARAH , Professional Staff 
Member 
DANIEL A. G EORGE , Senior Investigative 
Counsel 
JACOB H. G LICK, Investigative Counsel 
AARON S. G REENE , Clerk 
MARC S. H ARRIS , Senior Investigative Counsel 
ALICE K. H AYES , Clerk 
QUINCY T. H ENDERSON , Staff Assistant 
JENNA HOPKINS , Professional Staff Member 
CAMISHA L. J OHNSON , Professional Staff 
Member THOMAS E. J OSCELYN , Senior Professional 
Staff Member 
REBECCA L. K NOOIHUIZEN , Financial 
Investigator 
CASEY E. L UCIER , Investigative Counsel 
DAMON M. M ARX, Professional Staff Member 
EVAN B. M AULDIN , Chief Clerk 
YONATAN L. M OSKOWITZ , Senior Counsel 
HANNAH G. M ULDAVIN , Deputy 
Communications Director 
JONATHAN D. M URRAY , Professional Staff 
Member 
JACOB A. N ELSON , Professional Staff Member 
ELIZABETH OBRAND , Staff Associate 
RAYMOND O’M ARA, Director of External 
Affairs 
ELYES OUECHTATI , Technology Partner 
ROBIN M. P EGUERO , Investigative Counsel 
SANDEEP A. P RASANNA , Investigative Counsel 
BARRY PUMP, Parliamentarian 
SEAN M. Q UINN , Investigative Counsel 
BRITTANY M. J. R ECORD , Senior Counsel 
DENVER RIGGLEMAN , Senior Technical Advisor 
JOSHUA D. R OSELMAN , Investigative Counsel 
JAMES N. S ASSO , Senior Investigative Counsel 
GRANT H. S AUNDERS , Professional Staff 
Member 
SAMANTHA O. S TILES , Chief Administrative 
Officer 
SEAN P. T ONOLLI , Senior Investigative 
Counsel 
DAVID A. W EINBERG , Senior Professional Staff 
Member 
AMANDA S. W ICK, Senior Investigative 
Counsel 
DARRIN L. W ILLIAMS , JR., Staff Assistant 
ZACHARY S. W OOD, Clerk  (IV) CONTRACTORS & CONSULTANTS 
RAWAA ALOBAIDI  
MELINDA ARONS  
STEVE BAKER  
ELIZABETH BISBEE  
DAVID CANADY  
JOHN COUGHLIN  
AARON DIETZEN  
GINAFERRISE  
ANGEL GOLDSBOROUGH  
JAMES GOLDSTON  
POLLY GRUBE  
L. C HRISTINE HEALEY  
DANNY HOLLADAY  
PERCY HOWARD  
DEAN JACKSON  
STEPHANIE J. J ONES  
HYATT MAMOUN  
MARY MARSH  
TODD MASON  
RYAN MAYERS  
JEFFMCBRIDE  
FRED MURAM  
ALEX NEWHOUSE  
JOHN NORTON  
ORLANDO PINDER  
OWEN PRATT  
DANPRYZGODA  
BRIAN SASSER  
WILLIAM SCHERER  
DRISS SEKKAT  
CHRIS STUART  
PRESTON SULLIVAN  
BRIAN YOUNG  
INNOVATIVE DRIVEN   (V) C O N T E N T S 
Page 
STATEMENTS OF MEMBERS OF CONGRESS  
The Honorable Bennie G. Thompson, a Representative in Congress From 
the State of Mississippi, and Chairman, Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol ...................................... 1 
The Honorable Liz Cheney, a Representative in Congress From the State 
of Wyoming, and Vice Chair, Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol ............................................................ 22 
C
OMMITTEE BUSINESS  
Report ....................................................................................................................... 2 3 
FOR THE RECORD  
The Honorable Bennie G. Thompson, a Representative in Congress From 
the State of Mississippi, and Chairman, Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol: Correspondence .................................................................................................... 4 
A
PPENDIX  
Full text, Report ...................................................................................................... 26   (1) BUSINESS MEETING ON A REPORT RECOM-
MENDING THAT THE HOUSE OF REP-RESENTATIVES CITE JEFFREY B. CLARK FOR CRIMINAL CONTEMPT OF CONGRESS 
Wednesday, December 1, 2021 
U.S. H OUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES , 
SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH 
ATTACK ON THE UNITED STATES CAPITOL , 
Washington, DC. 
The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 7 o’clock p.m., in room 
390, Cannon House Office Building, Hon. Bennie G. Thompson [Chairman of the Committee] presiding. 
Present: Representatives Thompson, Cheney, Lofgren, Schiff, 
Aguilar, Murphy, Raskin, Luria, and Kinzinger. 
Chairman T
HOMPSON . A quorum being present, the Select Com-
mittee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol will be in order. 
The Select Committee is meeting this evening to consider a re-
port on a resolution recommending that the House of Representa-tives find Jeffrey Bossert Clark in contempt of Congress for refusal to comply with a subpoena duly issued by the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol. 
Without objection, the Chair is authorized to declare the Com-
mittee in recess at any time. 
I will now recognize myself for an opening statement. ‘‘I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States.’’ 
That is a part of the oath my colleagues and I took at the begin-ning of this Congress and in years past when we were sworn in as Representatives, and part of this oath all of our staff members take, every person who serves this country, in uniform, civil serv-ants, and appointees across our Government. It is part of the oath Jeffrey Clark swore the last time he was an Assistant Attorney General—at the United States Department of Justice, of all places—to support and defend the Constitution. 
A year ago right now, while Mr. Clark was bound by the oath, 
an all-out attack on the Constitution was under way. The former President was waging a campaign to overturn the results of the election. His allies were looking for ways to get around the Con-stitution and keep him in power. It appears Mr. Clark was central to that effort. 
The campaign of political pressure and maneuvering failed. But 
the assault on the rule of law didn’t end. It escalated. It resulted in a violent attack on the seat of our democracy. What the former  2 
President’s inner circle couldn’t achieve with lies and unsupported 
lawsuits, a mob of rioters tried to do by force. 
So to do our duty as Members of this Committee, as Members of 
this body, as legislators charged with finding the truth about an at-tack on our democracy and sworn to support and defend the Con-stitution, we put Mr. Clark on our witness list. As someone who was in direct contact with the former President in the days leading up to January 6th, he has information we believe is relevant to our investigation. 
When he, unlike hundreds of others, refused to cooperate with 
our investigation voluntarily, we subpoenaed him on October 13th. When he appeared for a deposition on November 5th, instead of an-swering our questions, his lawyer presented the Committee with a dozen pages of excuses for defying the law and refusing to comply with our subpoena. 
We have heard the term ‘‘contempt of Congress’’ a lot in the last 
few weeks. We know it is serious business that can land a person in serious trouble, but it can sound a little abstract. 
So if you want to know what contempt of Congress really looks 
like, read the transcript of Mr. Clark’s deposition and his attorney’s correspondence with the Select Committee, because what you find there is contempt for Congress and for the American people, con-tempt for the rule of law, contempt for the Constitution. 
Faced with specific questions, he refused to offer any specific 
claim of privilege that could shield him from answering. Instead, he hid again and again and again behind his attorney’s 12-page let-ter and vague claims of privilege. Then he said, I am quoting, ‘‘I think that we are done,’’ and he walked out. 
Mr. Clark’s former superiors at the Justice Department didn’t 
hide. Mr. Rosen, Mr. Donoghue, they answered the Select Commit-tee’s questions for hours about the very same topics we would like to address with Mr. Clark. Many others have done the same. 
There is nothing extraordinary about Congress seeking the testi-
mony of a former executive branch official. Even the former White House chief of staff is now cooperating with our investigation. 
As permitted by House rules, I considered Mr. Clark’s objections 
and rejected them. The Select Committee provided him the oppor-tunity to return to the deposition, and he refused to do so. 
I want to note that around 8 o’clock last evening Mr. Clark’s at-
torney sent a letter to the Committee, another in a long series of long letters, stating that Mr. Clark now intends to assert his Fifth Amendment privilege against incriminating himself in this process. He offers no specific basis for that assertion. He offers no facts that would allow the Committee to consider it. 
Of course, Mr. Clark had the opportunity to assert this privilege 
and any other in response to questions we intended to ask him at the November 5th deposition. He declined to do so. He walked out. 
This is, in my view, a last-ditch attempt to delay the Select Com-
mittee’s proceedings. However, a Fifth Amendment privilege asser-tion is a weighty one. Even though Mr. Clark previously had the opportunity to make these claims on the record, the Select Com-mittee will provide him another chance to do so. 
I have informed Mr. Clark’s attorney that I am willing to con-
vene another deposition at which Mr. Clark can assert that privi- 3 
lege on a question-by-question basis, which is what the law re-
quires of someone who asserts the privilege against self-incrimina-tion. 
We have just learned that Mr. Clark has agreed to appear again 
to continue his deposition. However, we will proceed tonight with considering the contempt report, as this is just the first step of the contempt process. 
We just want the facts, and we need witnesses to cooperate with 
the legal obligation and provide us with the information about what led to the January 6th attack. 
Mr. Clark still has that opportunity, and I hope he takes advan-
tage of it. But we will not allow anyone to run out the clock, and we will insist that he must appear on this Saturday. 
Without objection, the correspondence will all be made part of 
the record. 
[The information follows:]  4 
111:NNl(C.f==~ 
«:ElOFGIIE'-.CM.1<0 11-,.,_ 
AJ),,lr,M8 SCIIIFl'.CAUFO"'-"lilo 
~~~~j.=~ ~~CA 
JMflrM$Ul 1 IMIIYIJlhO 
1UI.IIISCG lJl'II\VIIU,>NtA lolo.'£,.,-..~WG 
"1.AM .U\'lWGElt /Utt,O'S (l)n, Iiunbrtb &,umlttnt4 Qlongmta l1$Mo, ... (,'lfl,._111,1i,­
W_..~ ,,,0(1QU!I 
&.ltd Clmnmilltt to Juu,stigat, 14, ;tanunrv 614 Mladt on 14, llnlttb &latte <Mpltol 
November 30, 2021 
Mr. Hany W. MacDougald 
Caldwell, Carlson, Elliott &. DeLoac.h LLP 
Dear Mr. MacDougald : 
Neither of the two letters you sent to the Select Committee yesterday cw·e Mr. Clatk's 
refusal to comply with the subpoena to him for docu,:nents aud testimony. 
As discussed in previo,LS correspondenc e, both the deposition of Mr. Clark and the 
transcript review process were conducted in full compliance with the Hou~• s deposition rules and 
regulations.' You acknowledge that, under House Deposition Autho,ity Regulation 7, any appeal 
of the. Cbainnan ' s ruling lllllSt be wade by a Member of the Select Committee and ODJst occur 
within 3 d.1ys of the deposition, a time that has long since passed. Since you aud your c.lient 
s,uumari!y depatted the November 5 deposition before its couchL>ion, declined to remain to hear 
addit.ioual questions, and declined to renun when it recouveued , your newly-raic;ed concerns about 
the discussions in bis absence ,ing hollow. In any event, Mr. aark was provided full vis,1,ility into 
that record through the transcript review process. 
Most important ly, your letters confinn Mr. Clark's c-OOtinuing refusal to produce 
documents or to submit to a deposition where he would ansv.·er questions and may raise objections 
on a question-by-quest.ion basis to questions that implicate a valid constitutional privilege. His 
reftLSal coostitutes non-compliance with the subpoena and forces the Select Committee to consider 
refening him for criminal prosecution under the contempt of Congress sratute .. Your "proposal" 
whereby Mr. Qark would testify only at a public hearing before the full Select Committee, aud 
only ou topics of his choosing, is not an appropriate. accommoda tion., particularly sin~ you have 
ah·eacly acll,i.sed the Select Committee that your client has no substautive info,matiou to share on 
the topics referenced in your proposal.2 
1 s~" Lener from Chainnan Tbompsoo to H. MacDoupld, ds.ted Non.mbe.r 17, 2021, at 3 (discussing authority 
under House Resolution 503 to cousrinue die Select Comminee and issue tb.e inmuu subpoeaa to Mr. Clark, aad 
regulation,; reg:udmg the coo.due1 of the ~position) ; House Deposition Authority Regulation 8. "117th Congress 
Regulatio0$ for Use ofDepo'S.itioo Authority," 167 CoD.g. Rec. H41 (daily ed., Jan. 4, 2021) (de;.cnOing m:asc.ript 
review process). 
2 s~" Lener from H. ~iacDoug.:tld to Cb.aimu D. Thomp--..oo, dated Nonmber 5, 2021, at 11 (").ir. Clad. bad nothing 
to do with the January 6 protests or i.ncunio::i of some illto the Capitol"); Lener from H. ).facDougald to Cba.inn2n 
Thompsoo, da,;ed November 12, 2021, :u 4 (").ir. Cluk bad z.ero io\·oh·eroe.nt in the: events of January 6l''').  5 
Mr. Hany W. MacDougald 
Page2 
I have pre,,iou,ly ad,ised you tha~ pursuant to House Depositio n Aufuority Regulation I 0, 
the Select Collllllittee would decide whether to release Mr. Cia,k's deposition transcript publicly 
and would provide you \Vith a copy should the committee make such a detenuiuat.iou. The Select 
Committee has made the. decision to release the deposition transcripl. Accordingly , attached is a 
copy of that transcript. 
Enclosures. Sincerely, 
~~ 
Bellllie G. Thompson 
Chairman  6 
CALDWELL, CAR.LSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
HAM.Y VI. MA<:001,X;ALO 
MANAGING AAR.TNlR ATTORNE.Y5 AT V.W -ATLANTA, GEORGIA 30346 -November 30, 2021 
Hon. Bennie G. Thompson, Chairman 
January 6th Select Committee 
U.S. House of Representatives 
Longworth House Office Building 
Washington, DC 20515 
Via Email 
Dear Representative Thompson : 
In addition to the reasons previously set forth in my (1) letter to you of 
November 5, 2021, (2) my email to ■■■■ lof November 5, 2021, and my letters of 
(3) November 8, (4) November 12, (5) November 23, and (6)-(7) November 29, 2021 (two 
separate letters covering different issues), I now write to inform you and the Committee 
that on my advice Jeffrey Clark is assertlng his rights against self-incrimination under 
the Fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. 
As previously explained in this body of correspondence, the Committee's 
processes as applied to Mr. Clark are unconstitutional on multiple grounds, run afoul of 
congressional rules and historical precedent, and are abusive, unfair, and appear 
designed to head to a predetermined outcome. The Committee has refused to even 
consider narrowing the scope of testimony to the proper boundaries of its jurisdiction, 
to allow the pending Trump v. Thompson case to run its course so that it can at least 
inform the applicability of any applicable privileges (including executive privilege), or 
to proceed by way of written questions. Instead, the Committee has demonstrated at all 
times an unalterably closed mind, culminating in issuing a tweet at 1:52 PM 
yesterday announcing that a meeting would be held at 7:00 PM tomorrow to vote on a  7 
CALDWELL. CAR.LSON . 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 30, 2021 
Page 2 
report holding Mr. Clark in contempt and recommending referral to the Department of 
Justice for prosecution for criminal contempt. This was followed by a reporter's tweet 
two minutes later with an image of what appeared to be a press release announcing the 
meeting. And only one minute after that reporter's tweet was issued, a Politico story was 
posted to the web that could not possibly have been written, edited, and internally 
reviewed so soon after the Committee's tweet. See Betsy Woodruff Swan, Jan. 6 
Investigators Prepare to Hold Former Trump Admin Official in Contempt, POUTICO (Nov. 29, 
2021), available at b!!p~ww.p.Qiiti co.com/news/2021/11/29/jan-6-investigators-523456 
(Attachment A) (bearing a 1:5[!, pm time stamp). In your haste to publicly flay Mr. Clark, 
you did not even respond before sending out the Committee's tweet yesterday to either 
of our two weighty letters from yesterday morning before releasing that tweet (instead 
prioritizing giving advance warning and explanation on background to the press), other 
than ■■■■ I briefly acknowledging receipt later that afternoon. 
This letter divided into two parts: (1) a catalogue of the legal problems with how 
the Committee has proceeded and continues to proceed as set forth in my previous 
correspo ndence; and (2) supp0rt for FifU1 Amendment invocation. 
LEGAL ISSUES 
Our correspondence has described a number of profound legal defects afflicting 
the Committee's pursuit of Mr. Clark. They are Listed below. We reserve any other 
applicable legal arguments not listed below. 
1. The Committee Has No Authority to Take Depositions. As explained in my 
letter of November 29, 2021, the Committee as presently constituted cannot comply 
with either its enabling resolution, H. Res. 503, or the Rules of the House regarding the 
use of deposition authority, and certainly has not done so in the case of Mr. Clark. Those 
rules unambiguously require consultation with and participation by a duly constituted 
and appointed ranking minority member and their duly appointed minority counsel. 
The Committee has no such ranking minority member and moreover implicitly 
concedes the point in that it does not even purport to have a ranking minority member. 
See my letter of November 29, 2021, regarding deposition authority, pp. 1-9. Today, you 
sent another letter and all it does is assert, conclusoril y, that "both the deposition of Mr.  8 
CALDWELL, CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 30, 2021 
Page 3 
Clark and the transcript review process were conducted in full compliance with the 
House's deposition rules and regulations." Thompson Letter, at 1 & n.1 (Nov. 30, 2021). 
But your letter of today makes no attempt at all to grapple with the serious legal 
arguments I advanced in my November 29 letter. The Committee rushes onward 
nonetheless, heedless of any legal restraints on its composition or authority. 
Nor does the composition of the Committee conform with its enabling 
resolution, H. Res. 503, Section 2(a), which states that "The Speaker shall appoint 13 
Members to the Select Committee, 5 of whom shall be appointed after consultation with the 
minority leader." (Emphasis added). That requirement was simply swept aside by the 
Speaker. The Committee has only two members of the minority party, neither of whom 
were appointed in consultation with the Minority Leader. Jt is crystal clear that the 
January 6 Committee is not a properly composed Committee. 
As for the upcoming vote on whether to refer Mr. Clark for criminal contempt, 
the law is clear that no such prosecution may be had where the Committee has failed, as 
here, to follow its own rules. Yellin v. U.S., 374 U.S. 109, 124 (1963) ("The Committee 
prepared the groundwork for prosecution of in Yellin's case meticulously. It is not too 
exacting to require that the Committee be equally meticulous in following its own 
rules"); Christo/el v. U.S., 338 U.S. 84, 90 (1949) ("A tribunal that is not competent is no 
tribunal, and it is unthinkable that such a body can be the instrument of criminal 
conviction."); U.S. v. Reinecke, 524 F.2d. 435 (D.C. Cir. 1975) (same). 
2. Separation of Powers. 
A. You were quoted in Politico on November 9 saying "and we'll let the evidence 
based on what we look at determine guilt or innocence." Obviously, however, no 
congressional committee wields constitutional authority to "determine guilt or 
innocence." Similarly, no committee has authority to issue or enforce subpoenas to carry 
out such a flagrantly unconstitutional purpose. See my Jetter of November 12, p. 1. 
B. In historical context, this is no surprise. As James Madison explored, legislative 
bodies tend to constantly push their powers beyond legitimate boundaries:  9 
CALDWELL, CARLSON. 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 30, 2021 
Page4 
The legislative department is everywhere extending the sphere of its activity, 
and drawing all power into its impetuous vortex. The founders of our 
republics have so much merit for the wisdom which they have displayed, 
that no task can be less pleasing than that of pointing out the errors into 
which they have fallen. A respect for truth, however, obliges us to remark, 
that they seem never for a moment to have turned their eyes from the danger 
to liberty from the overgrown and all-grasping prerogative of an hereditary 
magistrate, supported and fortified by an hereditary branch of the legislative 
authority. They seem never to have recollected the danger from legislative 
usurpations, which, by assembling all power in the same hands, must lead to 
the same tyranny as is threatened by executive usurpations. 
Federalist No. 48 (Feb. 1, 1788). 
Madison notes that the Constitution's new, American version of the separation of 
powers is the only means for constraining legislative bodies from abusing their power: 
TO WHAT expedient, then, shall we finally resort, for maintaining in practice 
the necessary partition of power among the several departments, as laid 
down in the Constitution? The only answer that can be given is, that as all 
these exterior provisions are found to be inadequate, the defect must be 
supplied ., by so contriving the interior structure of the government as that its 
several constituent parts may, by their mutual relations, be the means of 
keeping each other in their proper places. 
Federalist No. 51 (Feb. 8, 1788) (emphasis added). 
Madison then summarizes the various structural restraints to protect the 
President and the Judiciary from Congress abusing its power relative to the first two 
branches. In the midst of this explanation, Madison clarifies that preservation of the 
Constitution in practice requires Presidents and Justices to protect their institutions 
against the tendency in which the Legislative Branch wil.1 indulge to abuse its powers:  10 
CALDWELL. CAR.LSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH. LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 30, 2021 
PageS 
Id. Ambition must be made to counteract ambition . The interest of the man 
must be connected with the constitutional rights of the place. It may be a 
reflection on human nature, that such devices should be necessary to 
control the abuses of government. But what is government itself, but the 
greatest of all reflections on human nature? If men were angels, no 
government would be necessary . If angels were to govern men, neither 
external nor internal controls on government would be necessary. In 
framing a government which is to be administered by men over men, the 
great difficulty lies in this: you must first enable the government to control 
the governed; and in the next place oblige it to control itself. 
TI1is language was widely quoted by constitution-makers in Eastern Europe after 
the fall of the Soviet Union. By following former President Trump's instruction, Mr. 
Clark is vindicating the separation of powers. What this Committee appears to construe 
as contempt of Congress is actually a heroic defense, at great personal and financial 
cost, of the Constitution. 
C. The Committee's subpoena and nearly all the topics of intended inquiry 
invade executive privilege, which rests on the separation of powers. The Committee 
seeks to question Mr. Clark about his communications with senior Department of 
Justice officials and the President himself that, all else being equal, are unquestionably 
within the scope executive privilege . The legal issue at hand goes to defining the 
contours of that privilege in the present context, a matter that is currently in direct 
litigation between the Committee and President Trump before the D.C. Circuit, and 
which is very likely headed for the Supreme Court. I have pleaded with the Committee 
to wait until that litigation has been concluded to revisit the permissible scope of 
inquiry with Mr. Clark. But the Committee has consistently refused to do so, forcing Mr. 
Clark, in a grotesquely unfair manner, to choose between violating his professional 
obligations to comply with President Trump's invocation of his privileges on the one 
hand and being held in contempt and possibly prosecuted on the other. This vendetta 
against Mr. Clark violates his constitutional rights and the Committee's constitutional  11 
CALDWELL, CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 30, 2021 
Page6 
duty to pursue accommodation rather than conflict in matters of executive privilege. See 
my letter of November 5, 2021, pp. 8-10 and my letter of November 12, 2021, p. 3. 
D. The Committee refuses to recognize that President Trump has instructed Mr. 
Clark to assert executive and other applicable privileges. It simply refuses to recognize 
the plain text of the letter from President Trump's then-counsel, former Representative 
Doug Co1lins, of August 2, 2021, the subsequent triggering of the conditions set forth in 
that letter by the Committee's issuance of subpoena to President Trump's closest 
advisors, or the positions taken by President Trump in his direct lawsuit against the 
Committee. See my November 5, 2021 letter, pp. 2-7; November 12, 2021 letter pp. 2-3; 
Memo of November 12, pp. 4-5. The Committee refuses to allow that litigation to 
conclude, even as it proceeds on an accelerated timetable . Instead, the Committee is 
he11-bent on holding Mr. Clark in contempt without regard to law, process, tradition, or 
its constitutional duty of accommodation in matters of executive privilege. 
E. The Committee contends unreasonably that Mr. Clark is inexorably bound by 
President Biden's purported waiver of President Trump's executive privilege, though 
that very question is at the core of the currently pending Trump v. Thompson. Even in the 
context of an extremely deferential facial challenge to the statute in Nixon v. 
Administrator of General Services, 433 U.S. 425 (1977), the Court recognized that a former 
President of necessity retains rights of executive privilege. The Court did not purport to 
delineate how an as-applied dispute over conflicting claims of privilege and waiver 
between a former and current President would be resolved. As Justice Powell observed, 
"the difficult constitutional questions lie ahead." 433 U.S. at 503. The Committee's 
position ignores cautions voiced in Justice Blackmun's concurrence, 433 U.S. at 491, and 
the dissents of Chief Justice Burger, 433 U.S. at 519-520, and Justice Rehnquist, 433 U.S. 
at 556, that for executive privilege to serve the Presidency and the incumbent President, 
it must apply as well to the former President after he leaves office. Sometimes 
presidential transitions are hostile. At present, President Trump is the strongest and 
most likely opponent to President Biden's re-election and so the political expedience of 
the purported waiver is clear. The institutional and constitutional nature of executive 
privilege preclude it being interpreted to countenance a politically motivated, tit-for-tat 
waiver by each succeeding administration of the previous administration's executive  12 
CALDWELL. CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 30, 2021 
Page7 
privilege . This would open a Pandora's box that would hamstring effective functioning 
of the executive branch, including the current administration of President Biden. See my 
letter of November 5, pp. 10-11. 
F. The Committee relies on a letter to Mr. Clark from DO) dated July 26, 2021, 
contending that the letter conclusively waives executive privilege with respect to its 
inquiry. The text of this letter cannot bear the Committee's wishful reading. First, the 
letter makes no reference to the January 6 Committee, and thus does not waive any 
privilege as to the Committee. Second, even if it did, the time frame as to which the 
privilege is purportedly waived in that letter is far narrower and shorter than the time 
frame set forth in the Committee's subpoena to Mr. Clark. This is a fundamental 
mismatch that renders untenable the Committee's reliance on that letter as opening up 
an inquiry of whatever time range it defines. When it comes to purported waivers of 
executive privilege, the Committee's reach exceeds its grasp. 
3. Due Process Violations 
A. You as Chairman claim authority to rule on our objections to your own 
subpoenas. Separation of powers and the Due Process Clause do not permit you to 
serve as both prosecutor, judge and jury. See my letter of November 12, 2021, p. 2. 
8. You prejudged our objections, rejecting them out of hand on the afternoon of 
November 5, 2021, only later concocting a series of post hoc rationalizations for a 
decision already made before any analysis of our objections had been undertaken. Id. 
Once we were able to review the deposition transcript, which you have furnished to us, 
your fatal prejudgment became clear. Worse yet, until we first saw a draft of the 
transcript on November 23, we did not know that you held two sessions on November 
5 that were transcribed (the second of which is where your ruling on our November 5 
objections occurred) without either me or Mr. Clark being present. As I previously 
pointed out in my November 29, 2021 letter regarding deposition transcript, pp. 1-2, 
that is the Star Chamber reborn. 
C. You and the Committee approach this matter with unalterably closed minds, 
evidenced by the full sweep of the offenses against fairness, logic, and the law  13 
CALDWELL. CARLSON. 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH. LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 30, 2021 
Page8 
catalogued in this letter and my prior correspondence, as well as a multitude of other 
statements and actions by you and other members of the Committee . See my email of 
November 5, 2021, and my letters of November 12, p. 2; my Memo of November 12, pp. 
1 -2; and my 1etter of November 29, regarding review of the deposition transcript, p. 4. 
D. You directed us at 4:30 PM on November 5 to appear at 4:00 PM on November 
5, and would hold Mr. Clark in contempt for being unable to travel backward in time. 
See my November 12, 2021 letter at p. 2. 
E. The Committee claims unbounded jurisdiction. The Committee claims 
authority to inquire into any election-related matter going all the way from April 2020 
to the day of the response to the subpoena. This claim rests on the idea that the events 
of January 6 at the Capitol were caused by or arose from persons harboring or 
expressing concern over or skepticism towards the integrity of the November 2020 
election. The First Amendment, to say nothing of the demands of mere rationality, stand 
in the way of such a grandiose conception of the Committee's investigative authority. 
The January 6 Committee cannot be allowed to become a roving commission to 
investigate and punish those holding what you regard as impure thoughts about the 
election or that trench on your view of what is politically correct or out of line with a 
"well-established" mainstream media narrative you happen to embrace. See my 
November 12, 2021 letter, pp. 4-5. 
This legat logical, and causal disconnect is especially stark in the case of Mr. 
Clark. He had nothing to do with the events of January 6. There is no logical or causal 
connection whatsoever between anything he did or did not do regarding the election­
all of which was completely unknown to the public on January 6 or before-and the 
actions of those who entered the Capitol. Id. Assuming, purely for the sake of argument, 
that New York Times stories in late January 2021 based on anonymous leaks have some 
accuracy, the entire kerfuffle about Mr. Clark and the election is over a letter that was 
never sent. 
In any event, Mr. Clark, like every American, is entitled by the First Amendment 
to freedom of thought (and, within the walls of the White House and the Justice 
Department, to freedom of speech as well) regarding the election. Accordingly, he  14 
CALDWELL, CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie C. Thompson 
November 30, 2021 
Page 9 
cannot constitutionally be required to answer to the Committee or any other 
government body for his views on the topic. This is the United States of America. 
F. Assuming for the sake of argument that, despite the various privilege 
objections I have asserted, the Commjttee is authorized to inquire into Mr. Clark's 
election-related work at the Department of Justice, the Committee and the Department 
have combined to deny him the opportunity to review DOJ election-related 
investigative files and other materials needed in his preparation . See my November 12, 
2021 letter, p. 2. Yet DO)'s July letter seems curiously aggressive about protecting from 
disclosure its actions or inactions concerning investigating election irregularities. 
As one example, DO] denied Mr. Clark access to the classified ODNI materials he 
reviewed relating to an analysis of foreign influence or interference in the election, as 
well as his related January 2, 2021 classified conversation with ONT Ratcliffe, based on 
the assertion by DOJ that the Committee was uot interested in that topic. But ■ 
-indicated on November 5, again while we were not present, that he did intend 
to ask about that topic. See my November 12 letter, pp. 3-4 & n. 5; November 29, letter, 
pp. 6-7 & n. 5. That contradiction is glaring. Additionally, in order to respect and 
observe Mr. Clark's due process and right to counsel protections, 1 must be allowed to 
review t.hose materials as we!J, in accord with the Fifth and Sixth Amendments to the 
Constitution. 
G. The Committee has time and again persisted in mischaracterizing our position 
as asserting a blanket refusal to testify on any topic. One of us has corrected the 
Committee on this point in nearly every one of our communicatfons with the 
Committee, which collectively conclusively refute the Committee's attempts to restate 
that position to its liking. See my letter of November 5, p. 12; my November 12 letter p. 
4; my Memo of November 12, p. 13; my November 29 letter regarding deposition 
authority, pp. 9-11. We have repeatedly sought a narrowed scope of testimony and have 
offered to testify on two topics that do not implicate executive privilege . The Committee 
is thus creating a knowingly fake narrative as a pretext for holding Mr. Clark in 
contempt. This is particularly true in light of breaking news that former White House 
Chief of Staff Mark Meadows has reached an arrangement to inquire into a limited set 
of topics that appear not to involve executive privilege. See Annie Grayer, et al., First on  15 
CALDWELL. CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 30, 2021 
Page 10 
CNN: Meadows Cooperating with January 6 Investigators, DAILY MAIL (Nov. 30, 2021), 
available at h.tl.ps://edition.Lim.com/2021/11/30/politics /mark-meadows-ja~± 
committee/i ndex.html. The story hints that the difference in treatment goes to a feeling 
by someone on the Committee that he or she can "tell the difference between someone 
who is stalling or faking," id., and someone who is not, apparently placing Mr. 
Meadows in the latter category. With due respect, I have provided you with extensive 
legal analysis and at no time have ever said that my willingness to allow Mr. Clark to 
discuss a limited set of topics was a "final offer." None of that constitutes "stalling" or 
"faking." The legal objections are presented in good faith and the invitation to negotiate 
on topics was offered in good faith. And in this regard it is important to note that at no 
point has the Committee itself ever made any form of offer to narrow its cornucopia of 
topics. It instead has insisted on all topics-and we were not even aware of that list of 
topics (since it was put on the record without us being present) until November 23 
when we first saw the transcription of a previously secret session where neither me nor 
my dient were present. 
The Committee has thus itself established that it is an instrumentality of partisan 
and ideological combat against its political enemies and not a legitimate or lawful 
congressional investigation. Mr. Clark and his legal and constitutiona l rights cannot be 
allowed to become casualties of the Committee's irrational quest to press the endless 
attack on former President Trump or to give itself a stump issue for the 2022 midterms. 
FIFTH AMENDMENT 
In the face of this ongoing abuse by the Committee, the growing roar of a 
madding crowd seeking Mr. Clark's prosecution and destruction over a letter never sent 
(again, referencing the anonymously sourced New York Times stories for the sake of 
argument), and the politicization of the current Department of Justice, I have advised 
Mr. Clark to assert his rights against self-incrimination under the Fifth Amendment.1 
1 ln footnote 1 of my letter of November 5, 2021, I stated "We also reserve all of Mr. Clark's individual 
rights under the Bill of Rights, though invocation of those rights is also not necessary at this time, as 
executive privilege and related privileges should be a sufficient threshold ground not to testify in  16 
CALDWELL, CARLSON , 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH. LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 30, 2021 
Page 11 
There is something of a cultural revolution underway in our country. The 
Committee has joined that effort, attempting to control thought and to punish those 
who dissent, and trying to enforce ideological conformity, by one means or another. We 
are seeing the equivalent of struggle sessions to compel a public confession of faith in a 
dogmatic view of the 2020 election. We have seen careers ruined, and families and 
friendships ruptured. The Constitution, especially the Bill of Rights, and most especially 
the Fifth Amendment, were designed from the outset to protect our liberty against such 
encroachments and excesses, as may from time to time threaten to sweep away reason 
and justice. "If there is any fixed star in our constitutional constellation, it is that no 
official, high or petty, can prescribe what shall be orthodox in politics, nationalism, 
religion, or other matters of opinion or force citizens to confess by word or act their faith 
therein." W. Va. State Bd. of Educ. v. Barnette, 319 U.S. 624,642 (1943). 
Thus1 it is elementary that the Fifth Amendment equally protects the innocent, 
especiaJly in situations like this one: 
The privilege against self-incrimination is a right that was hard-earned by 
our forefathers. The reasons for its inclusion in the Constitution-and the 
necessities for its preservation-are to be found in the lessons of history. As 
early as 1650, remembrance of the horror of Star Chamber proceedings a 
decade before had firmly established the privilege in the common law of 
England. Transplanted to this country as part of our legal heritage, it soon 
made its way into various state constitutions and ultimately in 1791 into the 
federal Bill of Rights. The privilege, this Court has stated, 'was generally 
regarded then, as now, as a privilege of great value, a protection to the 
innocent though a shelter to the guilty, and a safeguard against heedless, 
unfounded, or tyrannical prosecutions . 
response to the subpoena as it is currently framed." At p. 12 of the same letter, referring back to that 
footnote, I said "for the avoidance of all doubt, we reiterate that, during continued discussions and at all 
times, we reserve all other objections as may be applicable under the circumstances. See supra n. 1." My 
Memo of November 12, 2021, states in footnote 1 "This Memo reminds you and the Committee of the 
same reservations of rights stated in my November 5, 2021 letter to you. To economize on words, f will 
not _restate those reservations here."  17 
CALDWELL. CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 30, 2021 
Page 12 
Quinn v. United States, 349 U.S. 155, 161-162 (1955) (citations omitted) (emphasis added). 
Accordingly, Mr. Clark's invocation of his Fifth Amendment rights can and 
should in no way be construed or depicted as supporting an inference of guilt or 
wrongdoing on his part. Jt is instead his constitutional refuge against the media-hyped 
hysteria surrounding the events of January 6. 
The threat of a Committee vote to hold Mr. Clark in criminal contempt, 
particularly given the record of this matter, supplies all the justification needed to 
support the invocation of Mr. Clark's Fifth Amendment rights. Moreover, there has been 
a chorus of voices calling for Mr. Clark's criminal prosecution (and disbarment): 
• Lawrence Tribe, Barbara McQuade and Joyce White Vance, Here's a 
Roadmap for the Justice Department to Follow In Investigating Trump, Wash. 
Post (Aug. 5, 2021), suggesting conspiracy to defraud the United States, 
obstruction of the electoral count, obstruction of an official proceeding, 
RICO, voter fraud, violation of the Hatch Act, inciting insurrection and 
seditious conspiracy as plausible theories for prosecution. Available at 
https:ljw,-1,''"''.\vashin~!Qrrpost.com/opi nions/2021/08/0Cl/heres-roadmap­
iustice-depariment-folJow-investi~. 
• Lawrence Tribe and Dennis Aftergut, What Does Jeffrey Clark Have to Hide 
-And What Are Congress and AG Garland Going To Do About It?, urging 
prosecution of Mr. Clark for criminal contempt. Available at 
https:ljthehill.com/opinion/iudic iary/580643-w hat-does-j effrey-cla rk-have­
to-hide-and-what-are.:-_gmgress-and-ajl-P-arland?amp; 
• Glenn Kirschner, DO] Officials Thwarted Trump's Coup. Next Step: A 
Criminal Investigation. Available at https://www.msnbc.com/opinion /doj­
officials-thwarted-tnunp-s-coup-ne.xt-step-criminal-investi~ation­
n1276610?cidaaeml mda 202!08!2&user email'"990c6d84822b8256bd81680 
2c8af5bf571a92069ce45a25cd0444070 10e9260f·  18 
CALDWELL, CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 30, 2021 
Page 13 
• Rep. Thompson, joined by nine other members of the House, sued 
President Trump and others, alleging they unlawfully "conspired to incite 
an assembled crowd to march upon and enter the Capitol of the United 
States .... " Thompson et al v. Trump et al., Case No. 1:21-cv-0400-APM 
(D.D.C), Doc. 11-1, p. 1, 'l[ 1. 
• Rep. Swalwell filed suit against President Trump and others, alleging they 
incited a violent attack on the Capitol. Swalwell v. Trump, et al., 1:21:-cv-
00586-APM (D.D.C) Doc. 1. 
• Rep. Raskin, appearing on the Dean Obeidallah Show, referring to 
President Trump, said "[Y]ou're right, he's not been criminally charged for 
it yet. But we're perfectly wiUing to tum over evidence of criminal acts to 
the Department of Justice." (This remark also reveals Representative 
Raskin misconceiving Congress's role and trenching into Executive Branch 
powers.) Available at https://ww\.v.mediaite.com/radio/jamie-raskin­
commission-investigating-pro-trump-insurrection- is-tuming~ 
evjdence-of-criminal-acts-to-doj 1 (where Rep. Raskin also concedes that, as 
to former President Trump, the issue was already adjudicated in a Senate 
impeachment trial and Rep. Raskin, as House impeachment manager, lost 
that case). 
Further examples can be collected, but the point is clear enough-Mr. Clark has a 
reasonable basis for believing that his testimony before the Committee would be used 
against him in a criminal prosecution and is therefore entitled to assert his privilege 
against self-incrimination under the Fifth Amendment. 
Mr. Clark's Fifth Amendment rights extend to shield him from compelled 
production of documents or a privilege log. "The act of producing evidence in response 
to a subpoena nevertheless has communicative aspects of its own, wholly aside from 
the contents of the papers produced. Fisher v. United States, 425 U.S. 391, 410 (1976); 
United States v. Doe, 465 U.S. 605, 614, n.13 (1984); United States v. Grable, 98 F.3d 251, 254 
(6th Cir. 1996), cert. denied, 519 U.S. 1059, (1997). The same is true of a privilege log. SEC 
v. Coldicutt, 2017 U.S. Dist. Lexis 88401 (C.D. CA 2017) ("involuntary act of producing a  19 
CALDWELL, CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 30, 2021 
Page 14 
more detailed privilege log could have a testimonial aspect."). Therefore, we decline on 
Fifth Amendment grounds to deliver a privilege log. 
The events of January 6 should be investigated thoroughly. Yet the Committee's 
actions as described herein -pursuit of privileged matters far beyond that question, its 
consistent pattern of aggressively mischaracterizing our position, trampling on 
elementary due process rights, and refusing to seek any reasonable accommodation of 
the institutional and individual interests and rights at stake in this matter -combine 
with the other surrounding circumstances to create a reasonable apprehension sufficient 
to warrant invocation of the Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination. As noted 
above, we are pleased to learn that you have reached some sort of accommodation with 
Mark ivfeadows regarding testimony on topics that do not implicate executive privilege 
and so are left to wonder why you are not willing to do so for Mr. Clark, subject to an 
agreement that doing so does not waive any privileges, including those under the Fifth 
Amendment. 
cc: Jeffrey Bossert Clark Sincerely, 
Cal 
C!  20 
ZClii LO!'.GRE"rt CM..lfO~~llo 
AD,1,M8 SCltlR'.CA UF0~1" 
l'ETE AGULA.A. CAUFOflNIAi 
Sl\:fW>N' t.N i.lUll9'tlY ll0-.0"' J_, ""SU''I IMll'f'l.C.t.O [;~~Jf: (!)ne Jtunbreb &tut11tuntl) atongrr•• 115 ... _(>'1 11--1>•"" Yt.,,..._,1,cx:no1~ 
&tlect at&nnmm,, to ~uu,stigat, ti), Jn11uoru 611) Altadt 011 tl)c llnlttb ~utos <Eapltul 
December I, 2021 
Mr. Hany W. MacDougald 
Caldwel~ Carlson, Elliott & DeLoach LLP 
Dear Mr. MacDougald : 
Last oight, following the public release of the Select Committee 's repon recommendin g 
that the full House of Representatives vote to refer your client to the Department of Justice for 
criruinal contempt of Congress , we received your letter dated November 29, 2021. After IO pages 
spent largely rehashing arguments made in your previous com~spondence , 1 your letter states that 
you have advise<! Mr. Clad: to aSI<l1 his right against ,,.lf-illrnwillation 1md<r the fifth 
Amendment .' 
Although the 0;1eosible pu:pose of you:· Jetter is to offer "support for the Fifth Amendment 
invocation ",' it fails to do so. As the Supreme Cou:1 has stated, 1t)he ceutral staudai·d for the 
privilege 's application has been whether the claimant is confronted by ;-ubstantial and •re~' and 
not m.ef'ely trifling or imaginary , hazards of incrimination ." .~re.hem v. United States, 390 U.S. 
39, 53 (1968). Your claim that "[t)be threat of a Committee vote I<> hold ll,,lr. Chuk in criminal 
contempt, particularly gi\·en the record of this matter, supplies all the justification needed to 
suppott the invocation of ll,,lr. Chuk's Fifth Amendment rights",' falls far short of satisfy-ing this 
staudard. Your citation of public repo11ing about ll,,lr. Clark's action; and the prospect of c1llllinal 
prosecution likewise do not provide a predic.ate for a Fifth Amendn:ie:nt assertion, as it is the facts 
to be elicited in a proceeding that form the basis for a valid pmilege assettion, not simply 
allegations . 
Fu:ther, the cow1S have been clear that the Fifth Aruendmeot must be asse1ted -.ith 
'~sufficient particularity to allow an infOfllled ruling on the claim.•~ North River Ins. Co. v. Stefanou, 
831 F.2d484, 486-87 (4th Cir. 1987); see also U11itedStates >. Pierce, 561 F.2d 735, 741 (9th Cir. 
1977), cert. denied, 435 U.S. 923 (Fifth Amendmeot claim must be "raised in response to specific 
1 There a.re a couple of new co1mmrio:is buried in your latest recrt3tion, induding a suggestion tha1 because ~fr. 
CJui: is eititled to "frel!dom of tho~ht" UDder tbe Firs1 . .:\mendm@!U be catl!l.Ot be required to llllSWU questions 
regarding bis effom ro O'\'ertum die results of the 2020 election. Harry MacDou.g3ld letter 10 Chairman Bel1D.le G 
Fhomp!>On, Kon!.mbe! 29, 2021, p-.11ge 8·9. 
2 Harry MacDougald !etter co Chs.inu3.D BeJl.llie G. Thom~ , No\"embe.r 29, 202l~page 10. 
3 Harry Ms.c.Dougald letter co Chainnao Bennie G. Thompson,Konmber29, 202l~page2. 
' Harry MacDougal d letter co Chairman Bennie G. Thompson , No\·ember 29, 2021~page 12.  21 
Chairman T HOMPSON . As with Mr. Bannon, the Select Com-
mittee has no desire to be placed in this situation. But Mr. Clark 
has left us no other choice. He chose this path. He knew what con-sequences he might face if he did so. 
This Committee and this House must insist on accountability in 
the face of that sort of defiance. We must honor the oath we took to support and defend the Constitution. 
We all take that oath very seriously. I am sure that most public 
servants do. Because if that oath loses meaning, if it is reduced to empty words, then democracy and the rule of law in this country— we are in serious trouble. Mr. Hany W. MacDougald 
Page2 
questions propounded by the investigating body'). Blanket assertions such as the one offered by 
your letter are not sufficient.' Your letter fails to provide any basis, nruch less a particularized 
basis, for Mr. Qarlc' s belief that answers to evmy question that might be asked of him ( or that the 
produc.tion of eve,y document, including a privilege tog) suppo,ts a criminal conviction or 
provides a liuk in the chain of evidence needed to prosecute him for any federal crime. See United 
States v. Malnik, 489 F.2d 682,686 (5th Cir. 1974) ("It is simply impossible to anticipate eve,y 
question that utight be asked and conclude that each would present a distinc.t possibility of self­
incrimination if auswe,·ed by the wituess.'). The fact that yotu· client may face crintinat prosecutiau 
for refusing to answer question.!!. pursuant to a cougre,ssioual subpoena does not establish a valid 
basis to invoke the protections of the Fifth AmeudmeuL 
Nor do any of the purported misdeeds of the Select Comutittee you reference in your letter 
form such a basis. Your client was compelled by subpoena to testify on November 5. He chose not 
to do so based on vague, undifferent iated claims of pri,itege.6 His refusal to testify on November 
5 is the exdusive re.ason for a potential criminal referral. \Vbatever mistreatment you claim., by the 
Select Committee or otherwise., after Nove.mber 5 cannot be relied upon as au excuse for his 
coutempnlOUS conduct or a po.st-hoc justification for his belated invocation of Fifth Amendmen t 
,ights. 
Nonethele ss, given Che magnitude of a Fifth Amendment. privilege assertion, we are 
prepared to convene a second deposition proceeding to provide you and Mr. Qark with au 
oppomutity to more specifically assert such a pri,uege. During that deposition, we wilt put forth 
specific questions ou matters relevant to the Select Co1lllllirtee's investigation and provide "Mr. 
Qark au oppomutity to articulate the basis for his Fifth Amendment privile,ge in response to each 
question, as the above authority indicates is an essential predicate to a valid privilege assertion. If 
Mr. Qark agrees to appear at a deposition to perfect his Fifth Ameodmen t p,ivitege assertion, we 
will schedule that proceedin g within the ue,_1 several days. Howe\'er, until he agrees to appear at 
a deposition as indicated herein, v.--e intend to proceed with the Selec.t Committee 's c.oru;ideration 
of enforcement optious -a process which begius this evening at the Select Contulittee 's business 
uieetiug. 
Sincerely, 
Bennie G. Thompson 
Chairru.m 
s Id. (''a bl3llket refusal to answer any question i; unacceptab le''). 
'It is imporw:u to note that )ob. Cladi. specificall y chose no; ,;o Ul,·oke bis Fifth Amendment rigbts at tbe de-posirioa. 
As you quote iD foomo:e 1 ofyourmostrKeo., le.i:er,you wrote on November 5: "'We alsores.er-.e all of Mr. Clatk's 
iodi,idtul righ:s uadier the Bill of Rights, though i?>.Yoc:itiou of those rigbr. is also nor oeCt$.S3!"\.' ii: this time, as 
e.ucutive prhilege wd re.lated pmileges sbould be a sufficient thre;.bold groW1d'" (empba;is added). Ba?ry 
).facDougatd le.i:er to ChainuaD Be!lllie G. Thompson, No,·ember 29, 2021, pag.e 10.  22 
I urge my colleagues to support adoption of the report recom-
mending that the House of Representatives cite Jeffrey Clark for contempt of Congress and refer him for prosecution by the Depart-ment of Justice. 
I now recognize a distinguished leader on the Select Committee, 
Ms. Cheney of Wyoming, for any opening comments she would care to offer. 
Vice Chair C
HENEY . Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 
Jeffrey Clark was an Assistant Attorney General, a Trump ap-
pointee at the Department of Justice. According to multiple sources, Mr. Clark was asked by then-President Trump to take over the role of Attorney General, in part so he could issue a series of letters falsely suggesting that the Department of Justice believed that the Presidential election may have been stolen. 
Of course, this happened after the Department had repeatedly 
informed President Trump that his allegations of a stolen election were not true and were not supported by the evidence. This hap-pened after dozens of courts had ruled against President Trump and his election fraud claims. This happened after the electoral col-lege certified the results of the election, as our Constitution re-quires. 
We are a Nation of laws, and our Justice Department has a sol-
emn obligation to truth and justice. Imagine what would have hap-pened if all the Trump-appointed leaders at the Justice Depart-ment had supported Clark and had corruptly issued those false let-ters. Imagine what January 6th would have been then—an even more profound constitutional crisis. 
But Mr. Clark was not appointed, and his letter was not issued, 
because a group of honorable public servants, each holding high- level positions in the Department of Justice, understood that they were bound by higher oaths to our Constitution. 
They did not yield, even to the President who appointed them. 
They faced down President Trump in the Oval Office and forcefully told him no. They would not allow the DOJ to be turned into an arm of President Trump’s campaign to overturn the Presidential election. These leaders told him they would resign, and virtually all other high-level Trump appointees at the Department would resign as well. 
According to multiple accounts, the President’s White House 
counsel also threatened to resign. 
Important details regarding all of these events remain unknown. 
How did this plan with Mr. Clark originate? Who else was in-volved? How did it progress so far? 
The American people are entitled to all of these answers, and we 
need the full story in order to legislate effectively. But so far Mr. Clark has refused to provide these answers. 
As the Chairman indicated, in the last hour Mr. Clark’s attorney 
has told us that Mr. Clark would be willing to appear at another deposition and that he plans to assert his Fifth Amendment rights against self-incrimination. 
If Mr. Clark believes that answering questions about his discus-
sions with President Trump and others in November and December 2020 and January 2021 could incriminate him and he therefore wishes to invoke privilege on that basis, the Committee would cer- 23 
* For the text of the report, see Appendix. tainly consider that. We will not finalize this contempt process if 
Mr. Clark genuinely cures his failure to comply with the subpoena this Saturday. 
It is important to note, however, that Mr. Clark is not excused 
from testifying simply because President Trump is trying to hide behind inapplicable claims of executive privilege. Of course, Mr. Clark is refusing to answer questions that are not conceivably sub-ject to any executive or other privilege claim. 
Finally, let me make a larger point as well. President Trump continues to make the same false claims about 
a stolen election with which he has misled millions of Americans. These are the same claims he knows provoked violence in the past. He has recently suggested that he wants to debate Members of this Committee. 
This Committee’s investigation into the violent assaults on our 
Capitol on January 6th is not a game. When this Committee con-venes hearings, witnesses will be called to testify under oath. Any communications Mr. Trump has with this Committee will be under oath. If he persists in lying then, he will be accountable under the laws of this great Nation and subject to criminal penalties for every false word he speaks. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentlewoman yields back. 
Pursuant to notice, I now call up the Report on a Resolution Rec-
ommending That the House of Representatives Find Jeffrey Bossert Clark In Contempt of Congress for Refusal To Comply with a Sub-poena Duly Issued by the Select Committee To Investigate the Janu-ary 6th Attack on the United States Capitol. 
The report was circulated in advance and printed copies are 
available. The clerk shall designate the report. 
[The clerk designated the report.] Chairman T
HOMPSON . Without objection, the report* will be con-
sidered as read and open to amendment at any point. 
Chairman T HOMPSON . If there is no further debate, I now recog-
nize the gentlewoman from Wyoming, Ms. Cheney, for a motion. 
Vice Chair C HENEY . Mr. Chairman, I move that the Committee 
favorably report to the House the Committee’s Report on a Resolu-
tion Recommending That the House of Representatives Find Jeffrey Bossert Clark In Contempt of Congress for Refusal To Comply with a Subpoena Duly Issued by the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol. 
Chairman T
HOMPSON . The question is on the motion to favorably 
report to the House. 
Those in favor, say ‘‘aye’’. Those opposed, say ‘‘no’’. In the opinion of the Chair, the ayes have it. Vice Chair C
HENEY . Mr. Chairman, I request a recorded vote. 
Chairman T HOMPSON . A recorded vote is requested. 
The clerk will call the roll. [The clerk called the roll, and the result was announced as fol-
lows:]  24 
Select Committee Rollcall No. 2 
Motion by Ms. Cheney to Favorably Report 
Agreed to: 9 ayes to 0 noes 
Members Vote 
Ms. Cheney, Vice Chair ............................................................................... Aye 
Ms. Lofgren .................................................................................................. Aye Mr. Schiff ..................................................................................................... Aye Mr. Aguilar ................................................................................................... Aye Mrs. Murphy (FL) ......................................................................................... Aye Mr. Raskin ................................................................................................... Aye Mrs. Luria .................................................................................................... Aye Mr. Kinzinger ................................................................................................ Aye Mr. Thompson (MS), Chairman ................................................................... Aye 
Chairman T HOMPSON . The motion is agreed to. 
The Vice Chair is recognized. Vice Chair C
HENEY . Mr. Chairman, pursuant to clause 2(l) of 
rule XI, I request that Members have 2 calendar days in which to file with the clerk of the Committee supplemental or additional views on the measure ordered reported by the Committee tonight. 
Chairman T
HOMPSON . So ordered. 
Without objection, staff is authorized to make any necessary 
technical or conforming changes to the report to reflect the actions of the Committee. 
There being no further business, without objection, the Select 
Committee stands adjourned. 
[Whereupon, at 7:19 p.m., the Select Committee was adjourned.]  (25) A P P E N D I X  26 
REPORT ON A RESOLUTION RECOMMENDING THAT THE HOUSE OF REP-
RESENTATIVES FIND JEFFREY BOSSERT CLARK IN CONTEMPT OF CON-
GRESS FOR REFUSAL TO COMPLY WITH A SUBPOENA DULY ISSUED BY THE SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE UNITED STATES CAPITOL 
House Calendar No. 
11 7TH CONGRESS } { 1st Session HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES REPORT 
117-
RESOLUTION RECOMMENDING THAT THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
FIND JEFFREY BOSSERT CLARK IN CONTEMPT OF CONGRESS FOR RE­
FUSAL TO COMPLY WITH A SUBPOENA DULY ISSUED BY THE SELECT 
COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE 
UNITED STATES CAPITOL 
DECEMBER _, 2021.-Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed 
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, from the Select Committee to Inves­
tigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, 
submitted the following 
REPORT 
The Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on 
the United States Capitol, having considered this Report, reports 
favorably thereon and recommends that the Report be approved. 
The form of the Resolution that the Select Committee to Inves­
tigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol would 
recommend to the House of Representatives for citing Jeffrey 
Bossert Clark for contempt of Congress pursuant to this Report is 
as follows: 
Resolved, That Jeffrey Bossert Clark shall be found to be in con­
tempt of Congress for failure to comply with a congressional sub­
poena. 
Resolved, That pursuant to 2 U.S.C. §§ 192 and 194, the Speaker 
of the House of Representatives shall certify the report of the Se­
lect Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the 
United States Capitol, detailing the refusal of Jeffrey Bossert Clark 
to produce documents or answer questions during a deposition be­
fore the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on 
the United States Capitol as directed by subpoena, to the United 
States Attorney for the District of Columbia, to the end that Mr. 
Clark be proceeded against in the manner and form provided by 
law. 
Resolved, That the Speaker of the House shall otherwise take all 
appropriate action to enforce the subpoena.  27 
2 
CONTENTS 
Page 
Purpose and Summary ... ... .... .... .... ... .... .... .... ... .... .... .... ... .... .... .... ... .... .... .... ... .... .... ... 2 
Background on the Select Committ ee's Investigation . .... ... .... .... .... ... .... .... .... ... .... 4 
Select Committ ee Consideration .. ... .... .... .... ... .... .... .... ... .... .... .... ... .... .... .... ... .... .... ... 20 
Select Committ ee Votes ........................................................................................... 20 
Select Committee Oversight Findings . . .. .... .... ... ... .... .... .... ... .... .... .... ... .... 20 
C.B.O. Estimate ........................ ................... ................... ......................................... 20 
Statement of General Performance Goals and Objectives ... ..................... 21 
Appendix . .... .... ... .... .... .. . ... .... .... .... ... .. . .... ... .... .... .... ... .... .... ... 22 
PURPOSE AND SUMMARY 
On January 6, 2021, a violent mob breached the security perim­
eter of the United States Capitol, assaulted and injured scores of 
police officers, engaged in hand-to-hand violence with those officers 
over an extended period, and invaded and occupied the Capitol 
building, all in an effort to halt the lawful counting of electoral 
votes and reverse the results of the 2020 presidential election. In 
the words of many of those who participated in the violence, the 
attack was a direct response to false statements by then-President 
Trump-beginning on election night 2020 and continuing through 
January 6, 2021-that the 2020 election had been stolen by cor­
rupted voting machines, widespread fraud, and otherwise. 
In response, the House adopted House Resolution 503 on June 
30, 2021, establishing the Select Committee to Investigate the Jan­
uary 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (hereinafter referred 
to as the "Select Committee"). 
The Select Committee is investigating the facts, circumstances, 
and causes of the January 6th attack and issues relating to the 
peaceful transfer of power, in order to identify how the events of 
January 6th were planned, what actions and statements motivated 
and contributed to the attack on the Capitol, how the violent riot 
that day was coordinated with a political and public relations strat­
egy to reverse the election outcome, and why the Capitol security 
was insufficient to address what occurred. The Select Committee 
will evaluate all facets of these issues, create a public record of 
what occurred, and recommend to the House, and its relevant com­
mittees, corrective laws, policies, procedures, rules, or regulations . 
According to documents and testimony gathered by the Select 
Committee, in the weeks leading up to the January 6th attack on 
the U.S. Capitol, Jeffrey Bossert Clark participated in efforts to 
delegitimize the results of the 2020 presidential election and delay 
or interrupt the peaceful transfer of power. As detailed in a report 
issued by the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee (hereinafter "Sen­
ate Report") and press accounts, after numerous courts throughout 
the United States had resoundingly rejected alleged voter fraud 
challenges to the election results by the Trump campaign, and after 
all states had certified their respective election results, Mr. Clark 
proposed that the Department of Justice (DOJ) send a letter to offi­
cials of the State of Georgia and other States suggesting that they 
call special legislative sessions to investigate allegations of voter 
fraud and consider appointing new slates of electors.1 In violation 
1 U.S. Senate, Committ ee on the Judiciary, "Subverting Justice: How the Former President 
and His Allies Pressured DOJ to Overturn the 2020 Election," (Oct. 7, 2021) ("Senate Report"), 
at p. 4. See also Jonathan Karl, Betrayal: The Final Act of the Trump Show, (New York: Dutton, 
2021), pp. 250-254.  28 
3 
of DOJ policy and after a direct admonition from the Acting Attor­
ney General of the United States, Mr. Clark also met with White 
House officials, including then-President Trump, to discuss efforts 
to delegitimize, disrupt, or overturn the election results.2 To fur­
ther these efforts, President Trump considered installing Mr. Clark 
as the Acting Attorney General, a plan that was abandoned only 
after much of the DOJ leadership team and the White House Coun­
sel threatened to resign if Mr. Clark was appointed.3 
The Select Committee believes that Mr. Clark had conversations 
with others in the Federal Government, including Members of Con­
gress, regarding efforts to delegitimize, disrupt, or overturn the 
election results in the weeks leading up to January 6th. The Select 
Committee expects that such testimony will be directly relevant to 
its report and recommendations for legislative and other action. 
On October 13, 2021, the Select Committee issued a subpoena for 
documents and testimony and transmitted it along with a cover let­
ter and schedule to counsel for Mr. Clark, who accepted service on 
Mr. Clark's behalf on October 13, 2021.4 The subpoena required 
that Mr. Clark produce responsive documents and appear for a 
deposition on October 29, 2021.5 
The contempt of Congress statute, 2 U.S.C. § 192, makes clear 
that a witness summoned before Congress must appear or be 
"deemed guilty of a misdemeanor " punishable by a fine of up to 
$100,000 and imprisonment for up to 1 year.6 Further, the Su­
preme Court in United States v. Bryan (1950) emphasized that the 
subpoena power is a "public duty, which every person within the 
jurisdiction of the Government is bound to perform when properly 
summoned."7 The Supreme Court recently reinforced this clear ob­
ligation by stating that "[ w ]hen Congress seeks information needed 
for intelligent legislative action, it unquestionably remains the duty 
of all citizens to cooperate ."8 
On November 5, 2021, Mr. Clark appeared at the negotiated time 
designated for his deposition but refused to produce any documents 
or answer pertinent questions of the Select Committee. Counsel for 
Mr. Clark expressed in no uncertain terms that, "We will not be 
answering any questions or producing any documents ."9 Counsel 
and Mr. Clark then relied on a 12-page letter-addressed to the 
Chairman and hand-delivered to Select Committee staff counsel at 
the beginning of the deposition-to object to nearly every question 
the Select Committee Members and staff put to Mr. Clark.10 De­
spite the Select Committee 's attempts to determine the scope or na­
ture of his objections on a question-by-question basis, Mr. Clark 
and his counsel refused to clarify their positions. When pressed to 
2 Senate Report, at pp. 22-23, 28, 43-44. 
3Jd., at pp. 37-38. 
4See Appendix, Ex. 1 (Subpoena to Jeffrey B. Clark, Oct. 13, 2021). 
5 By mutual agreement, the date for testimony and production of documents was continued 
to November 5, 2021. 
6The prison term for this offense makes it a Class A misdemeanor. 18 U.S.C. § 3559(a)(6). 
By that classification, the penalty for contempt of Congress specified in 2 U.S.C. § 192 increased 
from $1,000 to $100,000. 18 U.S.C. § 3571(b)(5). 
7 United States v. Bryan, 339 U.S. 323, 331 (1950). 
8Trump v. Mazars USA LLP, 140 S.Ct. 2019, 2036 (2020) (emphasis in original; internal 
quotation marks removed). 
9See Appendix, Ex. 2 (Transcript of November 5, 2021 Deposition of Jeffrey B. Clark), at p. 
8. 
10 Mr. Clark did answer one substantive question at the deposition: regarding his use of a par­
ticular gmail account. Appendix, Ex. 2, at pp. 31-32.  29 
4 
proceed through the Select Committee's questions, including topics 
to which there could be no colorable claim of privilege, Mr. Clark 
abruptly left the deposition . Despite notice to Mr. Clark that the 
deposition would resume later that day for the Chair to rule on Mr. 
Clark's objections and give him instructions on responding, Mr. 
Clark did not return to the deposition at the notified time. When 
the deposition reconvened, the Chairman ruled on the objections 
and directed the witness to answer, as prescribed in House rules, 
both on the record of the deposition and in subsequent communica­
tions to Mr. Clark's counsel. Mr. Clark's subsequent correspond­
ence with the Select Committee failed to provide valid legal jus­
tification for his refusal to provide documents and testimony to the 
Select Committee . 
Mr. Clark's refusal to comply with the Select Committee's sub­
poena represents willful default under the law and warrants refer­
ral to the United States Attorney for the District of Columbia for 
prosecution under the contempt of Congress statute as prescribed 
by law. The denial of the information sought by the subpoena im­
pairs Congress's central powers under the United States Constitu­
tion. 
BACKGROUND ON THE SELECT COMMITTEE'S INVESTIGATION 
House Resolution 503 sets out the specific purposes of the Select 
Committee , including: 
• To investigate and report upon the facts, circumstances, 
and causes "relating to the January 6, 2021, domestic terrorist 
attack upon the United States Capitol Complex ." 
• To investigate and report upon the facts, circumstances, 
and causes "relating to the interference with the peaceful 
transfer of power." 
• To investigate and report upon the facts, circumstances, 
and causes relating to "the influencing factors that fomented 
such an attack on American representative democracy while 
engaged in a constitutional process." 
The Supreme Court has long recognized Congress's oversight 
role. "The power of the Congress to conduct investigations is inher­
ent in the legislative process."11 Indeed, Congress 's ability to en­
force its investigatory power "is an essential and appropriate auxil­
iary to the legislative function ."12 "Absent such a power, a legisla­
tive body could not 'wisely or effectively ' evaluate those conditions 
'which the legislation is intended to affect or change.' "13 
The oversight powers of House and Senate committees are also 
codified in legislation . For example , the Legislative Reorganization 
Act of 1946 directed committees to "exercise continuous watchful­
ness" over the executive branch's implementation of programs with­
in their jurisdictions, 14 and the Legislative Reorganization Act of 
1970 authorized committees to "review and study, on a continuing 
basis, the application, administration, and execution" of laws.15 
11 Watkins v. United States, 354 U.S. 178, 187 (1957). See also Trump v. Mazars USA, LLP, 
140 S.Ct. 2019, 2031 (2020). 
12McGrain v. Daugherty, 273 U.S. 135, 174 (1927). 
13Ashland Oil, Inc. v. FTC, 409 F.Supp. 297, 305 (D.D.C. 1976), affd, 548 F.2d 977 (D.C. Cir. 
1976) (quoting McGrain, 273 U.S. at 175). 
14 Pub. L. 79-601, 79th Cong. § 136, (1946). 
15 Pub. L. 91-510, 91st Cong. § 118, (1970).  30 
5 
The Select Committee was properly constituted under section 
2(a) of House Resolution 503, 117th Congress. As required by that 
resolution , Members of the Select Committee were selected by the 
Speaker, after "consultation with the minority leader."16 A bipar­
tisan selection of Members was appointed pursuant to House Reso­
lution 503 and the order of the House of January 4, 2021, on July 
1, 2021, and July 26, 2021.17 
Pursuant to House rule XI and House Resolution 503, the Select 
Committee is authorized "to require, by subpoena or otherwise, the 
attendance and testimony of such witnesses and the production of 
books, records, correspondence, memoranda , papers, and docu­
ments as it considers necessary ."18 Further, section 5(c)(4) of House 
Resolution 503 provides that the Chairman of the Select Com­
mittee may "authorize and issue subpoenas pursuant to clause 
2(m) of rule XI in the investigation and study" conducted pursuant 
to the enumerated purposes and functions of the Select Committee. 
The Select Committee's authorizing resolution further states that 
the Chairman "may order the taking of depositions, including pur­
suant to subpoena , by a Member or counsel of the Select Com­
mittee, in the same manner as a standing committee pursuant to 
section 3(b)(l) of House Resolution 8, One Hundred Seventeenth 
Congress." 19 The October 13, 2021, subpoena to Mr. Clark was duly 
issued pursuant to section 5(c)(4) of House Resolution 503 and 
clause 2(m) of rule XI of the Rules of the House of Representa­
tives. 20 
A. The Select Committe e seeks information from Mr. Clark central 
to its investigation into the attack on the U.S. Capitol and the 
interference in the peaceful transfer of power. 
The Select Committee seeks information from Mr. Clark central 
to its investigative responsibilities delegated to it by the House of 
Representatives . This includes the obligation to investigate and re­
port on the facts, circumstances, and causes of the attack on Janu­
ary 6, 2021, and on the facts, circumstances and causes "relating 
to the interference with the peaceful transfer of power."21 
The events of January 6, 2021, involved both a physical assault 
on the Capitol building and law enforcement personnel protecting 
it and an attack on the constitutional process central to the peace­
ful transfer of power following a presidential election. The counting 
of electoral college votes by Congress is a component of that trans­
fer of power that occurs every January 6th following a presidential 
election. This event is part of a complex process, mediated through 
the free and fair elections held in jurisdictions throughout the 
country, and through the statutory and constitutional processes set 
up to confirm and validate the results. In the case of the 2020 pres-
16 Speaker Pelosi detailed such consultation and her selection decisions in a July 21, 2021, 
press release available at https://www.speaker.gov/newsroom/72121-2. 
17167 Cong. Rec. 115 (July 1, 2021), at p. H3597 and 167 Cong. Rec. 130 (July 26, 2021), 
at p. H3885. The January 4, 2021, order of the House provides that the Speaker is authorized 
to accept resignations and to make appointments authorized by law or by the House. See 167 
Cong. Rec. 2 (Jan. 4, 2021), at p. H37. 
18House rule XI, cl. 2(m)(l)(B), 117th Cong. (2021); H. Res. 503, 117th Cong. § 5(c)(4) (2021). 
19 H. Res. 503, 117th Cong. § 5(c)(6) (2021). 
20Section 5(c)(4) of H. Res. 503 invokes clause 2(m)(3)(A)(i) of rule XI, which states in perti­
nent part: "The power to authorize and issue subpoenas under subparagraph (l)(B) may be dele­
gated to the chair of the committee under such rules and under such limitations as the com­
mittee may prescribe." 
21 H. Res. 503, 117th Cong. (2021).  31 
6 
idential election, the January 6th electoral college vote count oc­
curred following a series of efforts in the preceding weeks by 
former-President Trump and his supporters to challenge the legit­
imacy of the election, and disrupt, delay, and overturn the election 
results. 
According to eyewitness accounts as well as the statements of 
participants in the attack on January 6, 2021, the purpose of the 
assault was to stop the process of validating what then-President 
Trump, his supporters, and his allies had characterized as a "sto­
len" or "fraudulent" election. The claims regarding the 2020 elec­
tion results were advanced and amplified in the weeks leading up 
to the January 6th assault through efforts by the former President 
and his associates to spread false information about, and cast 
doubts on, the elections in Arizona, Pennsylvania, Michigan, and 
Georgia, among other States, and to press Federal, State, and local 
officials to use their authorities to undermine the democratic tradi­
tion of a peaceful transfer of power. 22 
Evidence obtained by the Select Committee and public accounts 
indicate that, in that time frame, Mr. Clark, while serving at the 
Department of Justice, participated in initiatives to use DOJ au­
thorities to support false narratives about the 2020 election results 
in contravention of policy, tradition, and the facts.23 
While Mr. Clark refused to be interviewed by the Senate Judici­
ary Committee, the Senate Report nonetheless revealed portions of 
this story. According to the Senate Report, after being introduced 
by a Member of Congress , Mr. Clark met with then-President 
Trump on December 24, 2020, without the knowledge or authoriza­
tion of DOJ leadership,24 and then pushed the Acting Attorney 
General Jeffrey Rosen and Deputy Attorney General Richard 
Donoghue "to assist Trump's election subversion scheme."25 Accord­
ing to the Senate Report, Mr. Clark urged DOJ to announce pub­
licly that it was "investigating election fraud" and to "tell key 
swing state legislatures they should appoint alternate slates of 
electors following certification of the popular vote."26 
On December 28, 2020, after more than 60 courts had ruled 
against the Trump campaign and its allies with respect to claims 
of election fraud and the electoral college had already met and 
voted, Mr. Clark circulated to Mr. Rosen and Mr. Donoghue a draft 
letter to the Georgia Governor, General Assembly Speaker, and 
Senate President Pro Tempore that he recommended copying for 
other States.27 This proposed letter informed these State officials 
that DOJ had "taken notice" of election "irregularities" and rec-
22 Marshall Cohen, Jason Morris, and Christopher Hickey, "Timeline: What Georgia prosecu­
tors are looking at as they investigate Trump's efforts to overturn the election," CNN, (Aug. 5, 
2021), available at https://www.cnn.com/interactive/2021/08/politics/trump-georgia-2020-election/ 
; Rebecca Ballhaus, Alex Leary, and Dustin Volz, "Amid Vaccine Rollout and Historic Hack, 
Trump Remains Focused on Reversing Election," Wall Street Journal, (Dec. 20, 2020), available 
at https://www.wsj.com/articles/amid-vaccine-rollout-and-historic-hack-trump-remains-focused­
on-reversing-election-1160 8401545; Jonathan Cooper, "Arizona governor silences Trump's call, 
certifies election," Associated Press, (Dec. 2, 2020), available at https://apnews.com/article/elec­
tion-2020-donald-trump-arizona-elections-doug-ducey-e2b8b0de5b809efcc9blad5d279023f4; Zeke 
Miller, Christina Cassidy and Colleen Long, "Trump targets vote certification in late bid to block 
Biden," Associated Press, (Nov. 18, 2020), available at https://apnews.com/article/donald-trump­
targets-vote-certification-falf61cc5de6352deaa588dab908128e. 
23Senate Report, at pp. 7-10. 
24 Id., at p. 14. 
2s Id., at pp. 3-4. 
26Id. 
27 Id., at p. 21.  32 
7 
ommended calling a special legislative session to "evaluate the 
irregularities," determine "which candidate for President won the 
most legal votes," and consider appointing a new slate of electors.28 
Mr. Rosen and Mr. Donoghue summarily rejected Mr. Clark's pro­
posed letter, pointing out to Mr. Clark that the letter was inac­
curate and a violation of established Department policy. 29 
Against Mr. Rosen's instructions and DOJ policy, according to 
the Senate Report, Mr. Clark continued having direct contact with 
then-President Trump, who offered to appoint Mr. Clark Acting At­
torney General.30 During a meeting on January 2, 2021, Mr. Clark 
told Mr. Rosen he might be persuaded to turn down the President's 
offer to have him replace Mr. Rosen if Mr. Rosen sent out the pro­
posed letters.31 After Mr. Rosen refused to send the letters, Mr. 
Clark informed Mr. Rosen on January 3, 2021, that Mr. Clark in­
tended to accept the President's offer to replace Mr. Rosen as Act­
ing Attorney General.32 DOJ leadership (and several top White 
House advisors) then threatened to resign if the President ap­
pointed Mr. Clark as Acting Attorney General, and the plan to re­
place Mr. Rosen and proceed with Mr. Clark's efforts to interfere 
with the election results did not advance . 33 
The Select Committee sought documents and testimony from Mr. 
Clark to obtain complete understanding of the attempts to use DOJ 
to delegitimize and disrupt the peaceful transfer of power following 
the 2020 presidential election, including illuminating the impetus 
for Mr. Clark's involvement and with whom he was collaborating 
inside and outside government to advance these efforts. 
B. Mr. Clark has refused to comply with the Select Committe e's sub­
poena for testimony and documents. 
On October 13, 2021, the Select Committee transmitted a sub­
poena to Mr. Clark ordering the production of both documents and 
testimony relevant to the Select Committee 's investigation . 34 The 
accompanying letter from Chairman THOMPSON stated that the Se­
lect Committee had reason to believe that Mr. Clark had informa­
tion within the scope of the Select Committee's inquiry and set 
forth a schedule specifying categories of related documents sought 
by the Select Committee.35 
The requested documents covered topics including , but not lim­
ited to, Mr. Clark's role in connection with DOJ's investigation of 
allegations of fraud in the 2020 presidential election; communica­
tions with President Trump, senior White House officials, the 
Trump re-election campaign, Members of Congress , and state offi­
cials concerning alleged fraud in the 2020 election and the selection 
of presidential electors; delaying or preventing certification of the 
2020 presidential election results, including discussions of the role 
of Congress and the Vice President in counting electoral votes; the 
2s Id., at pp. 21-22. 
29 Id., at pp. 22-23. In his response to Mr. Clark, Mr. Donoghue noted: "Despite dramatic 
clrums to the contrary, we have not seen the type of fraud that calls into question the reported 
(and certified) results of the election." He reminded Mr. Clark that "[Attorney General] Barr 
made that clear to the public only last week." 
30 Id., at p. 28. 
31Id., at p. 34. 
32 Id., at p. 35. 
33 Id., at p. 38. 
34 See Appendix, Ex. 1. 
35Id.  33 
8 
security of election systems in the United States; purported election 
irregularities, election-related fraud, or other election-related mal­
feasance, including specific allegations of voter fraud in four states; 
and alleged foreign interference in the 2020 election, including for­
eign origin disinformation spread through social media. 
The Select Committee's subpoena required that Mr. Clark 
produce the requested documents and provide testimony on October 
29, 2021, at 10:00 a.m. This subpoena followed discussions between 
counsel for the Select Committee and Mr. Clark starting in early 
September. On October 27, 2021, Harry MacDougald, Esq. notified 
Select Committee staff that Mr. Clark's previous counsel had with­
drawn and he had been retained by Mr. Clark. On that same date, 
Mr. MacDougald asked for a short continuance of the document 
production and deposition date to allow him to prepare for those 
events. The Select Committee accommodated Mr. Clark's interest 
in moving back the date of his appearance and document produc­
tion and agreed to a new date of November 5, at 10:00 a.m. for 
both Mr. Clark's appearance and document production deadline. 
On November 5, 2021, Mr. Clark appeared as directed before the 
Select Committee , accompanied by Mr. MacDougald . The deposition 
was conducted in accordance with the House Regulations for the 
Use of Deposition Authority promulgated by the Chairman of the 
Committee on Rules pursuant to section 3(b) of House Resolution 
8, 117th Congress . 36 These regulations were provided to Mr. Clark 
and his attorney prior to his deposition. 37 At the outset of the depo­
sition, Mr. MacDougald handed Select Committ ee staff a 12-page 
letter addressed to Chairman THOMPSON .38 In that letter, and on 
the record at the deposition, Mr. MacDougald stated that Mr. Clark 
would not answer any of the Select Committee's questions on any 
subject and would not produce any documents.39 In his letter, Mr. 
MacDougald asserted that because former-President Trump was, 
while in office, entitled to confidential legal advice, Mr. Clark was 
"subject to a sacred trust" and that "any attempts . . . to invade 
that sphere of confidentiality must be resisted," concluding that 
"the President's confidences are not [Mr. Clark's] to waive." Mr. 
MacDougald's letter further stated that "the general category of ex­
ecutive privilege, the specific categories of the presidential commu­
nications, law enforcement, and deliberative process privileges, as 
well as attorney-client privilege and the work product doctrine, all 
harmonize on this point."40 Nowhere in his letter did Mr. 
MacDougald make any more specific assertion of executive privi­
lege or of any other privilege. 
Mr. MacDougald 's letter attached an August 2 letter to Mr. Clark 
from Douglas A. Collins, counsel to former-President Trump.41 The 
two-page letter informed Mr. Clark that former-President Trump 
was continuing to assert executive privilege over non-public infor-
36See 167 Cong. Rec. 2 (Jan. 4, 2021), at p. H41. 
37 See Appendix, Ex. 1; and Appendix, Ex. 3 (Staff Email to Counsel for Jeffrey B. Clark, Nov. 
3, 2021). 
38See Appendix, Ex. 4 (Letter from Counsel for Jeffrey B. Clark to Chairman Thompson, Nov. 
5, 2021). 
39 Although Mr. Clark argued with the Select Committee as to whether his refusal to answer 
substantive questions within the scope of the Select Committee's inquiry was properly described 
as "blanket" or "absolutist" (Appendix, Ex. 2, at pp. 23, 36), Mr. MacDougald's message was 
clear: "[Mr. MacDougald.J We're not answering questions today. We're not producing documents 
today." (Id., at p. 15). 
40 See Appendix, Ex. 4, at p. 2. 
41See Appendix, Ex. 4 (the Collins letter is enclosed).  34 
9 
mation related to Mr. Clark's service at DOJ. Former-President 
Trump's assertion came despite the fact that both President Eiden 
and DOJ had decided not to assert any privileges preventing Mr. 
Clark and other former DOJ officials from disclosing that informa­
tion to committees of Congress .42 Mr. Collins's August 2 letter con­
cluded, "[n]onetheless, to avoid further distraction and without in 
any way otherwise waiving the executive privilege associated with 
the matters [under investigation] , President Trump will agree not 
to seek judicial intervention to prevent [Mr. Clark's] testimony . . 
., so long as the Committees do not seek privileged information 
from any other Trump administration officials or advisors." The let­
ter concludes that, if the committees seek privileged information 
from other Trump administration officials, "we will take all nec­
essary and appropriate steps ... to defend the Office of the Presi­
dency."43 
In his November 5 letter, Mr. MacDougald argued that the Select 
Committee's September 23 subpoenas of four former Trump admin­
istration officials had made it "especially clear to Mr. Clark that 
executive privilege had been invoked," because the four subpoenas 
were in "violation of a condition " in Mr. Collins's August 2 letter. 
Mr. MacDougald argued that Mr. Collins's letter should be read as 
former-President Trump's assertion of executive privilege with re­
spect to the information the Select Committee was seeking from 
Mr. Clark. Thus, Mr. Clark was left with "no choice" but to treat 
all such information as subject to executive privilege "and related 
privileges." 44 
At Mr. Clark's deposition, Members of the Select Committee and 
staff attempted to obtain information from Mr. Clark and Mr. 
MacDougald concerning the boundaries of the privileges they 
sought to assert, posing a series of questions including whether Mr. 
Clark used his personal phone or email for official business, 45 when 
he first met a specific Member of Congress, 46 when he became en­
gaged in the debate regarding Georgia election procedure, 47 and 
what statements he made to the media regarding January 6th 
(statements to which Mr. Clark's counsel referred in his November 
5 letter to the Select Committee). 48 Mr. Clark refused to answer 
any of these questions and declined to provide a specific basis for 
his position, instead pointing generally to his counsel's 12-page No­
vember 5 letter.49 Mr. MacDougald announced that Mr. Clark 
42 Mr. Clark was advised of President Biden's and the Department of Justice position in a let­
ter from Associate Deputy Attorney General Bradley Weinsheimer, dated July 26, 2021. (See Ap­
pendix, Ex. 5 (Letter from Department of Justice to Jeffrey B. Clark, July 26, 2021)). 
43 Contrary to the interpretation of the August 2 letter offered by Mr. MacDougald, this last 
sentence suggests that Mr. Trump's representatives will take some action if this condition is 
met and the "Office of the Presidency" needs defending. 
44 Mr. MacDougald made various other observations relating to Mr. Trump's lawsuit to pre­
vent the National Archives from releasing certain Trump presidential records to the Select Com­
mittee, asserting that Mr. Trump's claims of privilege in that litigation bolster Mr. Clark's con­
tention that Mr. Trump intends to have Mr. Clark assert executive privilege in response to the 
subpoena. See Appendix, Ex. 4. 
45 Appendix, Ex. 2, at p. 32. 
46 Id., at p. 29. 
47 Id., at p. 30. 
4B Id., at pp. 25-26. 
49 Id., at pp. 29-31. For example, when asked specifically "whether Mr. Clark used personal 
devices to communicate government business," Mr. Clark's attorney responded: "Given the lack 
of specificity of the question, we can do no more than allude to the privileges that are asserted 
in the letter, which are the full panoply of executive, Federal law enforcement, and so on, privi-
Continued  35 
would not produce any documents in response to the subpoena,50 
and he and Mr. Clark walked out of the deposition at approxi­
mately 11:30 a.m. Before Mr. Clark and Mr. MacDougald departed, 
Select Committee staff counsel informed them clearly that the dep­
osition would remain in recess, subject to the call of the Chair, 
while the Select Committee evaluated Mr. MacDougald's November 
5 letter.51 
At 12:42 p.m. on November 5, Select Committee staff counsel 
sent Mr. MacDougald an email to inform him that the Select Com­
mittee would reconvene Mr. Clark's deposition at 4:00 p.m. that 
day.52 Staff counsel informed Mr. MacDougald that the purpose of 
the reconvened deposition would be to obtain a ruling from the 
Chairman, as required by House deposition authority regulation 7 
(which staff counsel quoted), on Mr. Clark's assertion of privilege 
and refusal to answer questions. Mr. Clark and Mr. MacDougald 
were asked to return to the site of the deposition at 4:00 p.m. or 
indicate their refusal to do so. Staff counsel noted, finally, that the 
Select Committee was preparing a response to the letter that Mr. 
MacDougald had delivered that morning, and that he would pro­
vide that letter at or before the reconvened deposition. 
Mr. MacDougald responded by email at 3:24 p.m. that he was on 
a flight to Atlanta and that it would not be possible for him to re­
turn to the reconvened deposition with Mr. Clark at 4:00 that 
afternoon. 53 His email response also included an informal list of 
purported legal objections to the Select Committee's demand that 
Mr. Clark reappear at his deposition and to the Chairman's antici­
pated ruling on Mr. Clark's stated objections. When the Select 
Committee reconvened Mr. Clark's deposition at 4:15 p.m. on No­
vember 5, Chairman THOMPSON noted for the record that Mr. Clark 
was not entitled to refuse to provide testimony to the Select Com­
mittee based on categorical claims of privilege. Accordingly, con­
sistent with applicable law and the House's deposition rules, the 
Chairman overruled Mr. Clark's objections and directed him to an­
swer the questions posed by Members and Select Committee coun­
sel. 
At 4:30 p.m. on November 5, Select Committee staff transmitted 
a letter from Chairman THOMPSON to Mr. MacDougald responding 
to the arguments made in the 12-page letter from Mr. 
MacDougald. 54 The Chairman stated in his response letter that 
there was no proper invocation of executive privilege with respect 
to Mr. Clark's testimony and document production in either Mr. 
Clark's November 5 letter, the August 2 letter from Mr. Trump's 
counsel, or in the information provided on the record at that morn­
ing's session of Mr. Clark's deposition. The Chairman noted that in 
the August 2 letter, Mr. Trump's counsel had, in fact, specifically 
stated that Mr. Trump would not seek judicial intervention to pre­
vent Mr. Clark's testimony and that Mr. MacDougald had, at the 
deposition that morning, stated that he had received no further in-
leges that are in the letter, and plus the reservation that we've made [regarding Constitutional 
rights]." Id., at pp. 33-34. 
50 Id., at p. 31. 
51Id., at p. 38. 
52See Appendix, Ex. 6 (Staff Email to Counsel for Jeffrey B. Clark, Nov. 5, 2021). 
53See Appendix, Ex. 7 (Email from Counsel for Jeffrey B. Clark to Select Committee Staff, 
Nov. 5, 2021). 
54See Appendix, Ex. 8 (Letter from Chairman Thompson to Counsel for Jeffrey B. Clark, Nov. 
5, 2021).  36 
11 
structions from Mr. Trump relating to Mr. Clark's testimony. The 
Chairman also noted that the Select Committee had received no di­
rect communication from former-President Trump asserting privi­
lege over information that the Select Committee sought pursuant 
to its subpoena to Mr. Clark. 
Chairman THOMPSON's November 5 letter stressed that, even if 
former-President Trump had previously invoked privilege with re­
spect to Mr. Clark's testimony and document production, the law 
does not support blanket, absolute claims of testimonial immunity 
even for senior presidential aides (which Mr. Clark was not) or 
blanket, non-specific assertions of executive privilege over the pro­
duction of documents to Congress . The Chairman also pointed out 
that, even had Mr. Trump invoked executive privilege with respect 
to Mr. Clark's testimony and document production, the privilege 
would only have covered communications that related to official 
government business. He noted that Mr. Clark would have had to 
assert any claim of privilege narrowly, specifically identifying the 
scope of those claims and which areas of testimony and which re­
sponsive documents the privilege claim covered. The Chairman 
noted his intention to formally reject Mr. Clark's claim of privilege 
when the deposition resumed. 
On November 8, Mr. MacDougald sent Chairman THOMPSON a 
brief response to his November 5 letter.55 In it, Mr. MacDougald 
asserted that, because the letter had not been transmitted until 
4:30 that afternoon, when Mr. MacDougald was on a flight back to 
Atlanta, it was "physically impossible" for Mr. Clark and him to ap­
pear at the resumed deposition as instructed-all despite the ear­
lier notices for reconvening. 
In his letter, Mr. MacDougald also noted his disagreement with 
the points made in the Chairman's November 5 letter, saying he 
would respond to it in detail later, but insisting that Mr. Clark had 
not, when he appeared for his deposition the morning of November 
5, made a "blanket" refusal to produce documents or answer ques­
tions. Mr. MacDougald characterized Mr. Clark's position as based 
on unspecified "matters of timing, prudence, and fairness, not on 
purported executive-privilege absolutism." He claimed that until 
there was a final judgment in the Trump v. Thompson litigation56 
relating to the Select Committee's request for presidential records 
held in the National Archives, Mr. Clark would be "in ethical jeop­
ardy" if he acceded to the Select Committee's demand for docu­
ments and testimony. 
On November 9, Chairman THOMPSON wrote to Mr. MacDougald 
to inform him of his formal ruling on the objections that Mr. Clark 
had raised during his deposition, and to respond in greater detail 
to the points made in the 12-page letter dated November 5 that Mr. 
MacDougald delivered to Select Committee staff at Mr. Clark's dep­
osition. 57 The Chairman's letter noted that when the Select Com­
mittee reconvened, the Chairman stated on the record that Mr. 
Clark was not entitled to refuse to testify based on categorical 
55See Appendix , Ex. 9 (Letter from Counsel for Jeffrey B. Clark to Chairman Thompson, Nov. 
8, 2021). 
56Trump u. Thompson, No. 21-cv-2769 (D.D.C. Nov. 9, 2021), F.Supp.3d , 2021 U.S. Dist. 
LEXIS 216812*, currently on appeal, Trump u. Thompson, No. 21-5254 (D.C. Cir.), 2021 U.S. 
Spp. LEXIS 33578*, 2021 WL 5239098 (Nov. 11, 2021). 
57 See Appendix, Ex. 10 (Letter from Chairman Thompson to Counsel for Jeffrey B. Clark, 
Nov. 9, 2021).  37 
12 
claims of privilege and that, accordingly, the Chairman had over­
ruled Mr. Clark's objections and directed him to answer the Select 
Committee's questions. The Chairman went on to detail three fun­
damental points. First, Mr. Clark had not established that either 
the former President or the current President had explicitly in­
voked executive privilege at all. Second, the law did not entitle Mr. 
Clark to refuse to respond to the Select Committee's questions and 
document requests with a "blanket" objection. Third, Mr. Clark's 
reliance on executive privilege was tenuous and the current Presi­
dent had determined that, with respect to the subjects of the testi­
mony the Select Committee sought, the "congressional need for in­
formation outweighs the Executive Branch's interest in maintain­
ing confidentiality." 
The Chairman's letter also pointed out that, while several courts 
had addressed assertions of absolute testimonial immunity similar 
to Mr. Clark's, all had held that there was no such immunity even 
where the incumbent President had explicitly invoked executive 
privilege as to a close White House adviser. The Chairman's letter 
further noted that the issues in the litigation that Mr. Trump had 
instituted relating to the Select Committee's document request of 
the National Archives were separate and distinct from Mr. Clark's 
privilege issues, so that a judgment in that matter would not re­
solve Mr. Clark's claims of absolute immunity from testifying in re­
sponse to the Select Committee's subpoena. The Chairman's letter 
also noted that many of the Select Committee's questions had noth­
ing to do with any communications Mr. Clark and Mr. Trump may 
have had. Chairman THOMPSON concluded by noting that Mr. 
Clark's refusal to provide either documents or testimony and fail­
ure to articulate any particularized claims of privilege indicated his 
willful disregard for the authority of the Select Committee. He 
stressed that there was no legal basis for Mr. Clark's assertion of 
a broad, absolute immunity or other privilege from testifying or 
providing responsive documents and noted several areas of inquiry 
that could not possibly implicate any version of executive privilege, 
even had such privilege been asserted in the manner legally re­
quired. The Chairman concluded that, for those reasons, he had 
overruled Mr. Clark's blanket objections to the Select Committee's 
subpoena. 
On November 12, Mr. MacDougald responded on behalf of Mr. 
Clark to the Chairman's letters of November 5 and 9.58 Mr. 
MacDougald's 21-page response consisted of a letter and an at­
tached 19-point memorandum, summarized in the letter. In them, 
Mr. MacDougald raised several objections and arguments, includ­
ing that the Select Committee's subpoena was improper in that it 
was "to carry out an unlawful and plainly non-legislative purpose" 
relating to law enforcement. He also expressed what he labeled 
"due process" objections, including that for the Chairman to rule on 
Mr. Clark's objections was to act as the "judge of [his] own case." 
Mr. MacDougald also argued that former-President Trump had in­
voked executive privilege both in Mr. Collins's August 2 letter, as 
well as in comments reported in a Fox News segment the next day. 
He asserted that it was "extremely unfair" for the Select Com-
58See Appendix, Ex. 11 (Letter and Memo from Counsel for Jeffrey B. Clark to Chairman 
Thompson, Nov. 12, 2021).  38 
13 
mittee to force Mr. Clark to testify before there had been a final 
resolution of the executive privilege issues raised in the Trump v. 
Thompson litigation. In addition, Mr. MacDougald objected to 
DOJ's July 26 letter authorizing Mr. Clark to testify on matters of 
interest to the Select Committee relating to information acquired 
during his DOJ service. He also asserted that the areas about 
which the Select Committee sought Mr. Clark's testimony and doc­
uments under the subpoena exceeded those authorized under the 
Select Committee's organizing resolution, claiming that Mr. Clark 
had no involvement of any sort with the events that occurred on 
January 6th. Mr. MacDougald's November 12 response also made 
several other objections unrelated to questions of executive privi­
lege, including an assertion that the Select Committee's subpoena 
was invalid. Mr. MacDougald's November 12 response closed with 
the unsupported assertion that the Select Committee was seeking 
to "relitigate the failed second impeachment of President Trump" 
through an unconstitutional process. 
On November 17, 2021, Chairman THOMPSON sent a letter to Mr. 
MacDougald addressing the various claims raised in the November 
12 letter. 59 The Chairman noted that Mr. MacDougald had failed 
to provide any legal authority justifying Mr. Clark's continuing re­
fusal to provide testimony and documents compelled by the sub­
poena. The Chairman also addressed the various challenges Mr. 
MacDougald made with respect to the scope of the Select Commit­
tee's work, its authority to issue subpoenas , and the fairness of the 
deposition process. The Chairman set forth the governing resolu­
tions, House rules, and caselaw that justified the actions taken and 
the process followed with respect to Mr. Clark. 
On November 29, 2021, Mr. MacDougald sent two letters to 
Chairman THOMPSON challenging the authority of the Select Com­
mittee to issue deposition subpoenas and raising various concerns 
supposedly prompted by his review of the deposition transcript.60 
Mr. MacDougald reiterated Mr. Clark's continued refusal to answer 
questions at a deposition, instead proposing that Mr. Clark appear 
at a public hearing of the Select Committee to testify as to certain 
matters Mr. MacDougald deemed "appropriately tailored to the 
Committee's mission under H. Res. 503," namely, comments Mr. 
Clark made to a reporter after January 6th regarding the events 
at the Capitol and "his role, if any, in planning, attending, respond­
ing to, or investigating January 6's events or former President 
Trump's speech on the Ellipse that same day."61 
C. Mr. Clark's purported basis for non-complianc e is wholly without 
merit. 
As part of its legislative function , Congress has the power to 
compel witnesses to testify and produce documents.62 An indi-
59See Appendix, Ex. 12 (Letter from Chairman Thompson to Counsel for Jeffrey B. Clark, 
Nov. 17, 2021). 
60 See Appendix, Exs. 13 and 14 (Letters from Counsel for Jeffrey B. Clark to Chairman 
Thompson, Nov. 29, 2021). 
61 Mr. MacDougald had previously represented to the Select Committee that Mr. Clark "had 
nothjng to do with the January 6 protests or the incursion of some into the Capitol." See, e.g., 
Appendix, Exs. 4 and 11. 
62McGrain, 273 U.S. at 174 ("We are of opinion that the power of inquiry-with process to 
enforce it-is an essential and appropriate auxiliary to the legislative function."); Barenblatt v. 
United States, 360 U.S. 109, 111 (1959) ("The scope of the power of inquiry, in short, is as pene-
Continued  39 
14 
vidual-whether a member of the public or an executive branch of­
ficial-has a legal obligation to comply with a duly issued and valid 
congressional subpoena, unless a valid and overriding privilege or 
other legal justification permits non-compliance. 63 In United States 
v. Bryan, the Supreme Court stated: 
A subpoena has never been treated as an invitation to a game of hare and 
hounds, in which the witness must testify only if cornered at the end of the 
chase. If that were the case, then, indeed, the great power of testimonial com­
pulsion, so necessary to the effective functioning of courts and legislatures, 
would be a nullity. We have often iterated the importance of this public duty, 
which every person within the jurisdiction of the Government is bound to per­
form when properly summoned.64 
In United States v. Nixon, 418 U.S. 683, 703-16 (1974), the Su­
preme Court recognized an implied constitutional privilege pro­
tecting presidential communications. The Court held that the privi­
lege is qualified, not absolute, and that it is limited to communica­
tions made "in performance of [a President's] responsibilities of his 
office and made in the process of shaping policies and making deci­
sions."65 The D.C. Circuit has recognized that, under certain, lim­
ited circumstances, executive privilege may be invoked to preclude 
congressional inquiry into specific types of presidential communica­
tions.66 
Mr. Clark has refused to testify or produce documents in re­
sponse to the subpoena. Mr. Clark's refusal to comply with the sub­
poena is ostensibly based on broad and undifferentiated assertions 
of various privileges, including claims of executive privilege pur­
portedly asserted by former-President Trump.67 As the Select Com­
mittee has repeatedly pointed out to Mr. Clark, his claims of execu­
tive privilege are wholly without merit, but even if some privilege 
applied to aspects of Mr. Clark's testimony or document production, 
he was required to assert any testimonial privilege on a question­
by-question basis and produce a privilege log setting forth specific 
privilege claims for each withheld document . Mr. Clark has done 
neither. 
1. Executive privilege has not been invoked. 
Mr. Clark is not able to establish the foundational element of a 
claim of executive privilege: an invocation of the privilege by the 
Executive. In United States v. Reynolds, 345 U.S. 1, 7-8 (1953), the 
Supreme Court held that executive privilege: 
trating and far-reaching as the potential power to enact and appropriate under the Constitu­
tion."). 
63 Watkins, 354 U.S. at 187-88 ("It is unquestionably the duty of all citizens to cooperate with 
the Congress in its efforts to obtain the facts needed for intelligent legislative action."); see also 
Committee on the Judiciary v. Miers, 558 F. Supp.2d 53, 99 (D.D.C. 2008) ("The Supreme Court 
has made it abundantly clear that compliance with a congressional subpoena is a legal require­
ment.") (citing United States v. Bryan, 339 U.S. 323, 331 (1950)). 
64 United States v. Bryan, 339 U.S. 323, 331 (1950). 
65 Nixon v. Administrator of General Services (GSA), 433 U.S. 425, 449 (1977) (internal quotes 
and citations omitted). 
66 Senate Select Committee on Presidential Campaign Activities v. Nixon, 498 F.2d 725, 7293-
33 (D.C. Cir. 1974). 
67 In correspondence with the Select Committee, Mr. Clark has supplemented his executive 
privilege claims with a variety of claims challenging the authority of the Select Committee and 
the subpoena, including that the Select Committee was not lawfully constituted and the sub­
poena seeks irrelevant information , is duplicative of other investigatory steps the Select Com­
mittee has taken, violates House rules, is "unfair," and is indicative of bias against hjs political 
views. Mr. Clark has not cited any legal authority for the proposition that any of these objec­
tions justify refusal to comply with a congressional subpoena because no such authority exists.  40 
15 
[B]elongs to the Government and must be asserted by it; it can neither be 
claimed nor waived by a private party. It is not to be lightly invoked. There 
must be a formal claim of privilege, lodged by the head of the department which 
has control over the matter, after actual personal consideration by that officer.68 
Here, the Select Committee has not been provided with any for­
mal invocation of executive privilege by the incumbent President, 
the former President69 or any other current employee of the execu­
tive branch. To the contrary, the executive branch has explicitly 
authorized Mr. Clark to provide the testimony and documents 
sought by the Select Committee. By letter dated July 26, 2021, the 
Department of Justice reminded Mr. Clark that Department attor­
neys are generally required to protect non-public information, in­
cluding information that could be subject to various privileges "law 
enforcement, deliberative process, attorney work product, attorney­
client, and presidential communications privileges." After listing 
those protective privileges, however, the Department explicitly au­
thorized Mr. Clark "to provide unrestricted testimony to [Con­
gress], irrespective of potential privilege" within the stated scope of 
Congress's investigations. 70 
The Select Committee has not received any formal invocation of 
privilege from the former President. Mr. Trump has had no com­
munication with the Select Committee-a fact the Select Com­
mittee has pointed out to Mr. Clark's counsel on several occa­
sions.71 Nor has the former President provided Mr. Clark any clear 
invocation of executive privilege with respect to his testimony. In­
stead, in justifying his refusal to comply with the Select Committee 
subpoena on November 5, Mr. Clark cited to an August 2 letter 
from Mr. Trump's counsel advising Mr. Clark that Mr. Trump 
would not seek judicial intervention to prevent his testimony before 
various congressional committees.72 Notably, as acknowledged by 
Mr. Clark's attorney during the November 5 deposition, Mr. Clark 
relied on his interpretation of the August 2 letter as an executive 
privilege instruction from Mr. Trump without having taken any 
68See also United States v. Burr, 25 F. Cas. 187, 192 (CCD Va. 1807) (ruling that President 
Jefferson had to personally identify the passages he deemed confidential and could not leave 
this determjnation to the U.S. Attorney). 
69The Supreme Court has held that a former President may assert executive privilege on his 
own, but his claim should be given Jess weight than that of an incumbent President. Nixon v. 
GSA, 433 U.S. at 449 (the "expectation of the confidentiality of executive communications has 
always been limited and subject to erosion over time after an administration leaves office"). The 
Court made note of the fact that neither President Ford nor President Carter supported former­
President Nixon's assertion of privilege, which, the Court said "detracts from the weight of his 
contention [that the disclosure of the information at issue] impermissibly intrudes into the exec­
utive function and the needs of the Executive Branch." Id.; see also Trump v. Thompson , No. 
21-cv-2769, at *13 (the incumbent President "is best positioned to evaluate the Jong-term inter­
ests of the executive branch and to balance the benefits of disclosure against any effect on the 
[ ... ] ability of future executive branch advisors to provide full and frank advice"). 
70 See Appendix , Ex. 5. 
71See Appendix , Exs. 8 and 10. 
72 Mr. Clark contends that certain "conditions " attached to Mr. Trump's decision not to block 
testimony from Mr. Clark and other Department of Justice officials were triggered after the Au­
gust 2 letter, thereby negating Mr. Trump's authorization for Mr. Clark to testify. (See Appen­
dix, Exs. 4 and 11.) However, the fact remains that Mr. Clark has failed to put forward any 
invocation of executive privilege or revised instructions from Mr. Trump regarding the assertion 
of privilege with respect to Mr. Clark.73 
73 Appendix , Ex. 2, at pp. 11, 16. 
74See Appendix , Exs. 4 and 11. 
75See Committee on the Judiciary v. McGahn, 415 F.Supp.3d 148, 214 (D.D.C. 2019) ("To  41 
16 
steps to confirm this interpretation with Mr. Trump or his rep­
resentatives. 
Under these circumstances , there is no actual claim by Mr. 
Trump of executive privilege with respect to Mr. Clark's testimony 
and materials. 
2. Mr. Clark is not entitled to absolute immunity. 
Mr. Clark has refused to provide any responsive documents or 
answer any questions based on his asserted reliance on Mr. 
Trump's purported invocation of executive privilege. However, even 
if Mr. Trump had invoked executive privilege , and even if certain 
testimony or documents would fall within that privilege, Mr. Clark 
would not be absolutely immune from compelled testimony before 
the Select Committee. 
In apparent recognition of the weakness of his legal position, Mr. 
Clark has repeatedly disavowed that he made any "blanket" or "ab­
solute" claim of privilege .74 Yet, he has clearly adopted such a posi­
tion: He refused to answer any substantive questions put to him 
on November 5; he walked out of the deposition; he failed to return 
when the deposition reconvened; and he rejected several opportuni­
ties to reconsider his position after being confronted with control­
ling legal authority that foreclosed his claims. 
Every court that has considered the concept of absolute immu­
nity from compelled congressional testimony has rejected it. These 
holdings have underscored that even senior White House aides who 
advise the President on official government business are not im­
mune from compelled congressional process.75 To the extent that 
testimony by Mr. Clark relates to information reached by a privi­
lege, Mr. Clark had the duty to appear before the Select Committee 
to provide testimony and invoke privilege where appropriate on a 
question-by-question basis. 76 
The Select Committee directed Mr. Clark and his counsel to the 
relevant authority on this point several times-at the deposition, 
when Mr. Clark first raised the issue of executive privilege, and in 
several letters since. 77 In his protracted correspondence with the 
Select Committee , Mr. Clark has assiduously avoided this clear au­
thority, and has cited no case that holds otherwise. His categorical 
refusal to answer questions and produce documents is entirely im­
proper and unsupported by legal authority .78 
72 Mr. Clark contends that certain "conditions" attached to Mr. Trump's decision not to block 
testimony from Mr. Clark and other Department of Justice officials were triggered after the Au­
gust 2 Jetter, thereby negating Mr. Trump's authorization for Mr. Clark to testify. (See Appen­
dix, Exs. 4 and 11.) However, the fact remains that Mr. Clark has failed to put forward any 
invocation of executive privilege or revised instructions from Mr. Trump regarding the assertion 
of privilege with respect to Mr. Clark.73 
73 Appendix, Ex. 2, at pp. 11, 16. 
74See Appendix, Exs. 4 and 11. 
75See Committee on the Judiciary v. McGahn, 415 F.Supp.3d 148, 214 (D.D.C. 2019) ("To 
make the point as plain as possible, it is clear to this Court for the reasons explained above 
that, with respect to senior-level presidential aides, absolute immunit y from compelled congres­
sional process simply does not exist."); Miers, 558 F. Supp.2d at 101 (White House counsel may 
not refuse to testify based on direction from President that testimony will implicate executive 
privilege). 
76 Courts have similarly rejected blanket, non-specific claims of executive privilege over the 
production of documents to Congress. See Comm. on Oversight & Gov't Reform v. Holder, No. 
12-cv-1332, 2014 WL 12662665, at *2 (D.D.C. Aug. 20, 2014) (rejecting a "blanket" executive­
privilege claim over subpoenaed document s).  42 
17 
3. Even if the former President had invoked executive privi­
lege and Mr. Clark had properly asserted it, the Select 
Committee seeks information from Mr. Clark to which ex­
ecutive privilege would not conceivably apply. 
The law is clear that executive privilege does not extend to dis­
cussions relating to non-governmental business or solely among 
private citizens.79 In In re Sealed Case (Espy), 121 F.3d 729, 752 
(D.C. Cir. 1997), the D.C. Circuit explained that the presidential 
communications privilege covered "communications authored or so­
licited and received by those members of an immediate White 
House adviser's staff who have broad and significant responsibility 
for investigating and formulating the advice to be given the Presi­
dent on the particular matter to which the communications relate." 
The court stressed that the privilege only applies to communica­
tions intended to advise the President "on official government mat­
ters."80 In Judicial Watch, Inc. v. Department of Justice, 365 F.3d 
1108, 1123 (D.C. Cir. 2004), the D.C. Circuit reaffirmed that the 
presidential communications privilege applies only to documents 
"solicited and received by the President or his immediate advisers 
in the Office of the President ." Relying on Espy and the principle 
that "the presidential communications privilege should be con­
strued as narrowly as is consistent with ensuring that the con­
fidentiality of the President's decision-making process is adequately 
protected," 81 the circuit court refused to extend the privilege even 
to executive branch employees whose sole function was to provide 
advice to the President in the performance of a "quintessential and 
nondelegable Presidential power."82 
The Select Committee seeks information from Mr. Clark on a 
range of subjects that the presidential communications privilege 
does not reach. For example, the Select Committee seeks informa­
tion from Mr. Clark about his interactions with private citizens, 
Members of Congress, or others outside the White House related to 
the 2020 election or efforts to overturn its results.83 At his deposi­
tion, Mr. Clark refused to answer questions regarding whether he 
used his personal phone or email for official business, 84 when he 
first met a specific Member of Congress, 85 and what statements he 
made to the media regarding January 6th.86 Mr. Clark has failed 
to provide a specific basis for his refusal to answer these ques­
tions-none of which involve presidential communications-instead 
78 Even if properly raised by Mr. Clark, any claim of executive privilege would fail because 
the Select Committee's need to investigate the facts and circumstances surroundin g the January 
6th assault on the U.S. Capitol and the Nation's democratic institutions far outweighs any exec­
utive branch interest in maintaining confidentiality, particularly where the core substance of 
Mr. Clark's activities has already been described by others within the Department of Justice. 
See Senate Report, at pp. 19-37. As noted by DOJ, the "extraordinary events in this matter . 
. . present[] an exceptional situation in which the congressional need for information outweighs 
the Executive Branch's interest in maintaining confidentiality." Appendix, Ex. 5, at p. 2. 
79 Nixon v. GSA, 433 U.S. at 449. 
80Id. 
81 Id., at 1116. 
82Id., at 1111. See also Miers, 558 F. Supp.2d at 100 (privilege claimants acknowledged that 
executive privilege applies only to "a very small cadre of senior advisors"). 
83 After Mr. Clark walked out of his deposition, Members of the Select Committee and staff 
described on the record several topics they had intended to cover with Mr. Clark. Appendix, Ex. 
2, at pp. 41-45. 
84 Appendix, Ex. 2, at p. 32. 
85 Id., at p. 29.  43 
18 
pointing generally to his counsel's November 5 letter.87 That No­
vember 5 letter, however, provided no authority or argument to jus­
tify Mr. Clark's refusal to answer questions on these topics. 
Even with respect to Select Committee inquiries that involve Mr. 
Clark's direct communications with Mr. Trump, executive privilege 
does not bar Select Committee access to that information. Execu­
tive privilege reaches only those communications that relate to offi­
cial government business. 88 Here, it appears that much of Mr. 
Clark's conduct regarding subjects of concern to the Select Com­
mittee did not relate to official government business. For example, 
Mr. Clark's efforts regarding promoting unsupported election fraud 
allegations with state officials constituted an initiative that Mr. 
Clark apparently initially kept secret from DOJ and then, when re­
vealed, continued to pursue, even after being explicitly instructed 
to stop. 
4. Mr. Clark has not established that any testimony or docu­
ments are protected by the attorney-client privilege. 
Mr. Clark has also made unspecific claims that the subpoena im­
plicates the attorney-client privilege and the work product doc­
trine. 89 As an initial matter, under longstanding congressional 
precedent, recognition of common law privileges such as the attor­
ney-client privilege is at the discretion of congressional commit­
tees.90 Further, Mr. Clark has failed to articulate a coherent argu­
ment regarding the applicability of the attorney-client privilege to 
the specific information sought by the Select Committee. Despite 
repeated requests, 91 Mr. Clark has failed to identify the client who 
could have an interest in protecting the confidentiality of commu­
nications with Mr. Clark or the subject matter of any purportedly 
privileged conversations. 92 "It is settled law that the party claiming 
the privilege bears the burden of proving that the communications 
are protected," and to carry this burden one "must present the un­
derlying facts demonstrating the existence of the privilege." 93 Fur­
ther, as with assertions of other privileges, "[a] blanket assertion 
of the [attorney client] privilege will not suffice." 94 
86 Id., at pp. 25-26 
87 Id., at pp. 29-31. For example, when asked specifically "whether Mr. Clark used personal 
devices to communicate government business," Mr. Clark's attorney responded: "Given the lack 
of specificity of the question , we can do no more than allude to the privileges that are asserted 
in the letter, which are the full panoply of executive, Federal law enforcement, and so on, privi­
leges that are in the Jetter, and plus the reservation that we've made [regarding Constitutional 
rights]."Id., at pp. 33-34. 
88See Espy, 121 F.3d at 752 ("the privilege only applies to communications ... in the course 
of performing their function of advising the President on official government matters"); cf In 
re Lindsey, 148 F.3d ll00, ll06 (D.C. Cir. 1998) (Deputy White House Counsel's "advice [to the 
President] on political, strategic, or policy issues, valuable as it may have been, would not be 
shielded from disclosure by the attorney-client privilege."). 
89 See Appendix , Ex. 4. 
90 See, e.g., Christopher M. Davis, Todd Garvey, and Ben Wilhelm, "Congressional Oversight 
Manual," Congressiona l Research Service, (RL30240, Mar. 31, 2021), pp. 61-64. 
91See Appendix , Ex. 2, at pp. 35-36; Appendix, Ex. 10. 
92The general subject matter of the communications is particularly critical here, where it is 
questionable as to whether Mr. Clark was providing legal advice within the scope of an attor­
ney-client relationship. See Lindsey, 148 F.3d at ll06 ("advice on political, strategic, or policy 
issues, valuable as it may have been, would not be shielded from disclosure by the attorney­
client privilege"). 
93 Id. Of course, the attorney-client relationship privilege would only apply to those commu­
nications that qualify based on their substance and over which confidentiality has been main­
tained. The attorney-client "privilege applies only if (1) the asserted holder of the privilege is ... a client; (2) the person to whom the communication was made ... is acting as a lawyer;  44 
19 
To the extent Mr. Clark believes a privilege applies, he was re­
quired to assert it specifically as to communications or documents, 
providing the Select Committee with sufficient information on 
which to evaluate each contention. He has not done so. 95 
5. The pendency of litigation involving the former President 
does not justify Mr. Clark's refusal to testify or produce 
documents. 
In his November 8 letter, Mr. Clark's counsel stated that his 
"threshold objection" is not based on "purported executive-privilege 
absolutism," but rather that the mere pendency of litigation initi­
ated by Mr. Trump regarding production of documents by the Na­
tional Archives pursuant to the Presidential Records Act absolves 
Mr. Clark from compliance with a congressional subpoena. This is 
not a valid objection to a subpoena, and the Select Committee is 
not aware of any legal authority that supports this position. More­
over, the issues raised in the National Archives litigation (Trump 
v. Thompson) are wholly separate and distinct from those raised by 
Mr. Clark, and the result in that case will not justify his refusal 
to testify, no matter the outcome. 
The dispute in Trump v. Thompson is whether a former Presi­
dent's assertion of executive privilege alone pursuant to statutory 
mechanism can prevent the Archivist from complying with the 
Presidential Records Act and turning over documents in the Archi­
vist's possession in response to a congressional request that is au­
thorized by the statute. In that case, the former President has 
made a formal invocation of executive privilege and has taken legal 
action to assert that privilege. The district court has held that a 
former President may not block compliance with the Presidential 
Records Act where the incumbent President has declined to assert 
privilege and has authorized the release of the requested docu­
ments.96 
Mr. Trump has appealed the district court's adverse ruling. But 
resolution of Trump v. Thompson will not resolve Mr. Clark's un­
differentiated claims of privilege. However Trump v. Thompson is 
resolved, it will not change the fact that Mr. Trump did not clearly 
invoke executive privilege with respect to the information sought 
by the Select Committee's subpoena to Mr. Clark. Nor would it 
alter Mr. Clark's obligation to appear for his deposition and assert 
executive privilege with respect to specific questions and docu­
ments. Nor would any ruling pull within the privilege testimony 
outside the limited sphere of executive privilege defined by the Su­
preme Court in U.S. v. Nixon and its progeny. In short, even a dra­
matic reversal and resounding victory for Mr. Trump in the Trump 
v. Thompson case would not justify Mr. Clark's defiance of the sub­
poena. 
Mr. Clark has cited no authority for the proposition that he may 
avoid a subpoena on the ground that the law-on an unrelated 
issue in litigation that does not involve or implicate him-might 
change in his favor with the passage of time. As the Supreme 
Court noted, a congressional subpoena is not "a game of hare and 
95Mr. Clark has also claimed that "ethical considerations" prevent his testimony, citing D.C. 
Bar Ethics Opinion No. 288 (See Appendix, Ex. 4, at p. 8). That opinion actually allows lawyers 
to produce information to Congress when given the choice between production or contempt. 
96Trump v. Thompson , No. 21-cv-2769 (D.D.C. Nov. 9, 2021) at *20.  45 
20 
hounds, in which the witness must testify only if cornered at the 
end of the chase."97 Mr. Clark was required to testify and produce 
documents. His failure to do so constitutes contempt.98 
D. Precedent Supports the Select Committee's Position to Proceed 
with Holding Mr. Clark in Contempt. 
An individual who fails or refuses to comply with a House sub­
poena may be cited for contempt of Congress. 99 Pursuant to 2 
U.S.C. § 192, the willful refusal to comply with a congressional sub­
poena is punishable by a fine of up to $100,000 and imprisonment 
for up to 1 year. A committee may vote to seek a contempt citation 
against a recalcitrant witness. This action is then reported to the 
House. If a resolution to that end is adopted by the House, the 
matter is referred to a U.S. Attorney, who has a duty to refer the 
matter to a grand jury for an indictment.100 
The Chairman of the Select Committee repeatedly advised Mr. 
Clark that his claims of privilege are not well-founded and did not 
absolve him of his obligation to produce documents and provide 
deposition testimony. The Chairman repeatedly warned Mr. Clark 
that his continued non-compliance would put him in jeopardy of a 
vote to refer him to the House to consider a criminal contempt re­
ferral. Mr. Clark's failure to testify or produce responsive docu­
ments in the face of this clear advisement and warning by the 
Chairman constitutes a willful failure to comply with the subpoena. 
SELECT COMMITTEE CONSIDERATION 
The Select Committee met on Wednesday, December 1, 2021. [ . 
. . ] 
SELECT COMMITTEE VOTES 
Clause 3(b) of rule XIII requires the Select Committee to list the 
recorded votes during consideration of this Report: [ ... ] 
SELECT COMMITTEE OVERSIGHT FINDINGS 
In compliance with clause 3(c)(l) of rule XIII, the Select Com­
mittee advises that the oversight findings and recommendations of 
the Select Committee are incorporated in the descriptive portions 
of this Report. 
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE ESTIMATE 
The Select Committee finds the requirements of clause 3(c)(2) of 
rule XIII and section 308(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974, and the requirements of clause 3(c)(3) of rule XIII and section 
402 of the Congressional Budget Act of 197 4, to be inapplicable to 
this Report. Accordingly, the Select Committee did not request or 
97 Bryan, 339 U.S. at 331. 
98The Select Committee did not accept the "proposal" set forth by Mr. Clark's attorney in No­
vember 29, 2021, correspondence with the Select Committee , whereby Mr. Clark would testify 
only at a public hearing before the full Select Committee, and only on topics of his choosing. 
This was not an appropriate accommodation, particularly as Mr. Clark had already advised the 
Select Committee that he had no substantive information to share on the topics referenced in 
the proposal. See Appendix, Ex. 4, at p. 11 ("Mr. Clark had nothing to do with the January 6 
protests or incursion of some into the Capitol."); Appendix, Ex. 11, at p. 4 ("Mr. Clark had zero 
involvement in the events of January 6th"). 
99 Eastland v. United States Servicemen 's Fund, 421 U.S. 491 (1975). 
100See 2 U.S.C. § 194.  46 
21 
receive a cost estimate from the Congressional Budget Office and 
makes no findings as to the budgetary impacts of this Report or 
costs incurred to carry out the Report. 
STATEMENT OF GENERAL PERFORMANCE GOALS AND OBJECTIVES 
Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII, the objective of this Re­
port is to enforce the Select Committee's authority to investigate 
the facts, circumstances, and causes of the January 6th attack on 
the U.S. Capitol and issues relating to the peaceful transfer of 
power, in order to identify and evaluate problems and to rec­
ommend corrective laws, policies, procedures, rules, or regulations; 
and to enforce the Select Committee's subpoena authority found in 
section 5(c)(4) of House Resolution 503.  47 
22 
APPENDIX 
Exhibits referenced above are as follows: 
1. Subpoena to Jeffrey B. Clark. 
2. Transcript of November 5, 2021 Deposition of Jeffrey B. 
Clark. 
3. Staff Email to Counsel for Jeffrey B. Clark on November 
3, 2021. 
4. Letter from Counsel for Jeffrey B. Clark to Chairman 
Thompson on November 5, 2021. 
5. Letter from Department of Justice to Jeffrey B. Clark on 
July 26, 2021. 
6. Staff Email to Counsel for Jeffrey B. Clark on November 
5, 2021. 
7. Email from Counsel for Jeffrey B. Clark to Select Com­
mittee Staff on November 5, 2021. 
8. Letter from Chairman Thompson to Counsel for Jeffrey B. 
Clark on November 5, 2021. 
9. Letter from Counsel for Jeffrey B. Clark to Chairman 
Thompson on November 8, 2021. 
10. Letter from Chairman Thompson to Counsel for Jeffrey 
B. Clark on November 9, 2021. 
11. Letter and Memo from Counsel for Jeffrey B. Clark to 
Chairman Thompson on November 12, 2021. 
12. Letter from Chairman Thompson to Counsel for Jeffrey 
B. Clark on November 17, 2021. 
13. Letter from Counsel for Jeffrey B. Clark to Chairman 
Thompson on November 29, 2021. 
14. Letter from Counsel for Jeffrey B. Clark to Chairman 
Thompson on November 29, 2021.  48 
EXHIBIT 1  49 
SUBPOENA 
BY AUTHORITY OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES OF THE 
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
Jellrey B. Clark 
To c/o Robert Driscoll, Esq., McGlinchey, Stafford, PLLC 
You arc hereby commanded to be and appear before the 
Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
or the House of Representatives of the United States at the place, date, and time specified below. 
0 to produce the things identified on the attached schedule touching matters of inquiry committed to said 
committee or subcommjucc; and you arc not to dcpan without leave of said committee or subcommittee. 
Place of production 
Date: October 29, 2021 Time: I 0:00 a.m. 
0 to testify at a deposition touching matters of inquiry committed to said committee or subcommittee; 
and you are not to depart without leave of said committee or subcommittee. 
Place of testimony: United Stales Capitol Building, Washington, DC 20515 
Date: October 29, 2021 Time I 0:00 a.m. 
D to testify at a hearing touching matters of inquiry committed to said committee or subcommittee; and 
you are not to depart without leave of said committee or subcommittee. 
I "= .,,~,~"'' 
. Date: _______ _ Time 
To any authorized staff member or the United States Marshals Service 
__________________________ to serve and make retum. 
Witness my hand and the seal of the House of Representatives of the United States, at 
the city of Washington, D.C. this 13th day of _,o,_,c""to,_,b"cr'----- ' 2021 
Chairman or Authorized Member  50 
PROOF OF SERVICE 
Subpoena for Jeffrey B. Clark 
c/o Robert Driscoll, Esq., McGlinchey, Stafford, PLLC 
Address -- Washington, DC 20004 
before the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States capitol 
U.S. House of RepresenfJJt/ves 
117th Congress 
Served by (print name) ______________ ___________ _ 
Title ------------------------- ------
Mann c r of service ____ ____________ __________ _ 
Date ________ __________ __________ _ 
SignarureofServer _______ ___________ ________ _ 
Address ------------------------------ 51 
BENNIE O THOfllf'SON , MISstSSI"' , ...... ..,.. 
lOI: LORN,'t. CAUl'OR NIA 
AOAM 8 SCHlfF CALJR>f!NIA 
!'HE AGt.lll.AA CAUFOll-.tA 
STEPHA.N I£ H MUJlll'MY , FlOfllOA 
JAMIE IIASl(JH MAAV\JI NO 
H.AINE O lUFIIA. vmo ... r.t. 
tlZC>4E.NtY WVO.UINO 
'-QUI l(f'tlztN<;flt ltUNOIS @a, Jlunbrrb &rurntrrnt11 Q!augrtss US ~ .. otP-N-.air.N 
W•9h"!l'Dt1 .0C2051!, 
1¥1..-"'6thi.c.....y,1;>' 
!2021J2~711CO 
edrrt <!Iammittrr to 1lnutstigatt tlJ• alnnuaru 61~ Attack on t~• l!lnitrb &tutrs Qiapitol 
VIA US and ELECTRONIC MAIL 
Jeffrey Bossert Clark, Esq. 
do Robert Driscoll, Esq. 
McGlinchcy Stafford PLLC 
Dear Mr. Clark: October I 3, 2021 
Pursuant 10 the authorities set forth in House Resolution 503 and the rule of the House of 
Representatives, the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States 
Capitol ("Select Committee") hereby transmits a subpoena that compels you to produce document s 
by October 29 and appear for a deposition on October 29. 
The Select Committee is investigating the focrs, circumstances, and causes of the January 
6th attack and issues relating to the pcaccfol transfer of power, in order to identify and evaluate 
lessons learned and to recommend to the House and its relevant committee s corrective laws, 
policies. procedures rules, or regulations. 
The Select Committee1s investigation has revealed credible evidence that you attempted 
to involve the Department of Justice in efforts 10 interrupt the peaceful transfer of power. As 
detailed in a report issued by the Senate Judiciary Committee, you proposed that the Department 
scud a letter to state legislators in Georgia and other stales suggesting that they delay 
certification of their election result and hold a press conference announcing that the Dcpanmcnt 
was investigati ng allegation s of voter fraud.1 These proposals were rejected by Department 
leadership as both lacking a factual basis and inconsistent with the Department's institutional 
role. 2 The report further indicates that you engaged in unauthorized investigation of allegations 
ofvmer fraud and failed to abide by the Dcpanmcnt's policy on contacts with the 'White House.l 
As a result of your efforts to prompt this Departmental action, the President considered installing 
you as Acting Attorney General. While be did not ultimately make that personnel change, your 
'·Subverting Justice: How the Fom1er President ond his Allies Pressured DOJ to Overturn the 2020 Election," 
Majority Staff Report of the Senate Judiciary Commiucc, Issued October 7. 2021 at p. 19. 
Id. ot 22-23. 
Id.  52 
Jeffrey B. Clark, Esq. 
Page 2 
efforts risked involving the Department of Justice in actions that lacked evidentiary foundation 
and threatened to subvert the rule of law. According ly, the Select Committee seeks both 
documents and your deposition testimony regarding these and other matters that arc within the 
scope of the Select Committee's inquiry. 
A copy of the rules governing Select Committee depositions, and document production 
definitions and instructions are attached. Please contact staff for the Select Committee at 202-225-
7800 if you have questions or wish to discuss this matter. 
Sincerely , 
Bennie G. Thompson 
Chaim1an  53 
Jeffrey 8. Clark, Esq. 
Page 3 
SCHEDULE 
In accordance wi1h the attached Definitions and Instructions , you, Jeffrey 8. Clark, are hereby 
required to produce, alt docmnents and communications in your possession, custody, or 
control including any such documentsorcomniunicationssto red or located on personal devtCes 
(e.g., _personal comptrers, cellular phones, tablets, etc.), in _personal accounts and/or on _personal 
awlications (e.g.., email accounts, contact lists, calendar entries, etc.)-referring or relating rto 
the following items. If no dale range is specified below1 the applicable dates are fer the time 
period April I, 2020.presen.t. 
l. Communications referring or relating in any way to plans, effons, or ruscussions 
regarding tOO Depart1nent of Justice's involvement in investigating allegations of election 
fraud in tlle 2020 Presidential election. 
2. All documents and conwun.ications relating in any way to a draft letter (Including 
previous drafts of !he letter) from the Departmen t of Justice to state officials regardin.g 
the convening o( as pecial legislative session,delay in certificatio n of election results, or 
any other matters concerning the fall 2020 election. 
3. From November 3, 2020, through January 20, 2021,conununications relating in any way 
toa possible press conference or other public statement by the Department of Justice 
regarding investigations of allegations of election fraud. 
4. All documents and communications relating in anyway to too possibility of the 
Departmen t of Justice filing documents in tlle United States Suprai,c Cowt regarding 
allegations of election fraud and/or tbecerti:ficattOnof the results of the election. 
5. All documents and communications relating in any ..-vay to a NOvcmber 9, 2020t 
memorandum fromAttorneyGeueral William Barr concerning io'1!stigation of voter 
fraud allegations. 
6. From November 3, 2020, through January 20, 2021, aU docwnents provided to you for 
reviewing., Msessing.. or reporting on the security of election systems in the United States. 
7. From November 3, 7020, through January 20, 2021, all documents and communications 
provided to you relating in any way to pu,ported election irregularities, election-related 
fraud, or other election.related malfeasance. 
8. AU documents and conununicitions relating in anyway to specific allegations of voter 
fraud in Georgia, Pe11nsylvania1 Michigan, Arizona, or any other states.  54 
Jeffrey B. Clark, Esq. 
· !'age 4 
9. All documents and commmtications relating in any way to alleged interference with the 
tabulation of votes by machines manufactured by 'Dominion Voting Systems. 
10. All documents and communications relating in anyway to alleged interference in the fall 
2020 election by foreign governments, organizations, or individuals. 
11. Arr,• docmnentsandcommunications relating in any way to foreign influence in the 
United States 2020 Presidential election tbroog.h social media narratlVes and 
disinformation. 
12. All communications .with former President Tnnnp, famer Chief Staff to the President 
Mark Meadows, a other individual who worked in the White House complex during the 
Trump Administra tion., including any employeeordetailee, relating in any way to 
allegations of fraud in the fall 2020 election. 
13. AU oomu11.oications with Representative Scott Perry or other Members of Congress 
relating in any way to allegations of fraud in the fall 2020 election, or to delaying or 
preventing the certification of the election of Joe Bidenas President. 
14. All oommunications with attorneys representing President Trwnp or the Trump re• 
electioo call1)aign relating in any way to litigation·involving the fall 2020 election. 
15. AU commimteation with theTrwnp re-election campaign relating in any way to the fall 
2020 clectio,c 
16. All oomnumications with Professor John E.lstman relating in any way to tOO fall 2020 
election. · 
17. All documents and oomnttutications relating in any way to state legislatures' selection, or 
potential selection, of alternate sets of electors to cast electoral votes in the fal 12020 
election. 
18. All documents and communications relating in any way to Congress's cc the Vice 
President's rote and authority when oounting electoral votes.  55 
DOCUMENT PRODUCTION DEFINITIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS 
1. In complying with this request, produce all responsive documents, regardless of 
classification level, that are in your possession, custody, or control, whether held by 
you or your past or present agents, employees, and representatives acting on your 
behalf. Produce all documents that you have a legal right to obtain, that you have a 
right to copy, or to which you have access, 118 well as documents that you have 
placed in the temporary posse,qsion , custody, or control of any third party. 
2, · Requested documents , and all documents reasonably related to the requested 
documents, should not be destroyed, altered, removed, transferred, or otherwise 
made inaccessible to the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on 
Urn United States Capitol ("Committee'), 
3. In the event that any entity, organization, or individual denoted in this request is or 
has been known by any niunc other than ti:\at herein denoted, the request shall be 
read also to include that alternative identification . · 
4, The Committee's preference is to receive documents in a protected 
electronic form (Le,, password protected CD, memol'y stick, thumb drive, or 
secure file transfer) in lieu of paper productions, With specific reference to 
classified material, you will coordinate with the Committee's Security 
Officer to arrange for the appropriate transfer of such information to the 
Committee. This includes, but is not necessarily limited to: a) identifying 
the classification level oft.he responsive do1mment(s); and b) coordinating 
for the appropriate transfer of any classified rcspousive document(s). 
5, Electronic docume11t productions should be prepared o.ccordlng to the 
following standards: 
a. If the production is completed thrm1gb a series of multiple partial 
productioDB, field rnune:i and file order in alfload files should match. 
b. All electronic documents produced to the Committee should include the 
following fields of metiidata specific to each document, and no 
modifications should be made to the original metadata: 
BEGDOC, ENDDOC, TEXT, BEGATIACI-1, ENDATTACH, 
PAGECOUNT, CUSTODIAN , RECORDTYPE, DATE, TIME, 
SENTDATE , SENTT1ME, BEGINDA TE, BEGINTIME , ENDDATE, 
ENDTIME, AUTHOR, FROM, CC, TO, BCC, SUBIBCT, TITLE, 
FILENAME, FILEEXT, FILESIZE, DATECREATED, TIMECitllATED, 
DATELASTMOD , TIMELASTMOD, INTMSGID, INTMSGI-IEADER, 
NATIVELINK, INTFILPATH, EXCEPTION , BEGA'ITACH ..  56 
6. Documents produced to.the Committee should include an index describing the 
contents of the production. To the exte11t more than one CD, bard drive; memory 
stick, thumb drive, zip file, box, or folder ls produced, .each should contain an 
. index describing its contents. 
7. Documents produced in response to this request shall be prodi1ced together with 
copies offile labels, dividers, or identifying markers with which they were 
associated when the request was served. 
8. When you produce documents, you should identify the paragraph(s) or request(s) 
in the Committee's letter to which the documents respond. 
9. The fact that any other person or entity also possesses non-identical or identical 
copies of the _same documents shall not be a hMis to withhold any information. 
10. The pendency of or potential for Litigation shall not be a basis to . 
withhold any information. 
11. In accordance with 5 U.S.C.§ 552(d), the Freedom of Information Act (FOLL\.) 
and any statutory exemptions to FOIA shall not be a basis for withho.lding any 
information. · 
12. Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. § 552a(b)(9), the Privacy Act shall not be a basis for 
withh~lding information. 
13. If compliance with the request cannot be made in full by the specified return date, 
compliance shall be made to tho extent possible by that date. An explanation of 
why full compliance is not possible shall be provided along with any parti~l 
production, as woll as a date cerlain as to when full production wlll be satisfied. 
14. In the event Ull\t a document is withheld on any basis, provide a log containing the 
following information concerning any such document: (a) the reason it is being 
withheld, including, if applicable, the privilege asserted; (b) the type of document; 
(c) the general subject matter; (d) the date, author, addressee, and any other 
recipient(s); (e) tbe relationship of the author and addressee to each other; and (t) 
the basis for the withholding. 
15. If any document responsive to this request was, but rio longer is, in your 
possession, custody, or control, ideritify the document (by date, anthor, subject, 
and recipients}, and explain the circumstances under which the document CQased 
to be in your possession, custody, or cpntrol. Additionally, identify where the 
reSponsive document can now be found including name, location, and contact 
information of the entity or entities now in possession of the responsive · 
docuinent(s). 
16. If a date o~ other descriptive detail set forth in this request referring to a document  57 
is inaccurate, but the actual date or other descriptive detail is known to you or is 
otherwise apparent from the context of the request, produce all documents that 
would_ be responsive as if the date or other descriptive detail were correct. 
17, This request is continuing in na_ture and applies to any newly-discovered 
info,mation. Any record, document, compilation of data, or information not 
produced because it has not been located or discovered by the return date shall be 
produced immediately upon subsequent location or discovery . 
18. All documents shall be Bates.-stamped sequcntfally and produced sequentially. 
19, · Upon completion of the production ; submit a writteffcertification, signed by you or 
your counsel, ststing that: (1) a diligent search has been completed of all 
documents in your possession, custody, or control that reasonably could contain 
responsive documents ; and· · 
· (2) all documents located during the search that are responsive have been produced 
to the Committee, · · 
Definitions 
1. The tenn "docl,llllent'' means nny written, recorded, or graphic matter of any nature 
whatsoever, regardless of classification level, how recorded, or how 
stored/displayed (e.g. on a social mc;dia platform) and whether original or copy, 
including, hut not limited to, the following: memoranda, reports, expense reports, 
books,' manuals, instructions, financial reports, data, working papers, records, notes, 
Jotters, notices, confumations, telegrams, receipts, _appraisals, pamphlets, 
magazine.~, newspapcra, prospectuses, communications, electronic mail ( email), · 
contracts, cables, notations of any type of conversation. telephone call, meeting or 
other inter-office or intra-office conimunicntion , bulletins, printed matter, computer 
printouts, computer or mobile device screenshots/ screen captures, teletypes, 
invoices, transcripts, diaries, analyses, returns, summaries, minutes, bills, accounts, 
estimates, projections, comparisons, messages, correspondence; press releases, 
circulars, financial statements, reviews, opinions, offers, studies and investigations , 
questionnaires and surveys, and woi:k sheets (and all drnfts, preliminary versions, 
altera.tio.ns, modifications , revisions, changes, and amendments of any of the 
foregoing, as well as any attachments or appendices thereto); and graphic or oral 
records or wprosentations pf any kind (incltiding without limitation, photographs, 
charts, graphs, microfiche, l)licrofilrn, videotape, recordings and motion pictures), 
and electronic, mechanical, and electric records or representations of any kind 
(including, without limitation, tapos, cassettes, disks, and recordings) and other 
written. printed, typed, or other graphic or recorded matter of any kind or nature, 
however produced or reproduced, and whether preserved in writing, film, tape, disk, 
videotape, or othorwiso. A document bearing any notation not a part of the original 
text is to be considered a separate document. A draft or non-identical copy is a 
separate document within the meaning of this term.  58 
2. The term "comm1111icatlon" means each manner or ·means of disclosure or 
exchange of information, regardless of means utilized, whether oral, electronic, 
by document or otherwise, and whether in a meeting, by telephone, facsimile, 
mail, releases, electronic message inchiding email (desk.top or mobile device), text 
message, instant message, MMS or SMS message, ·message application, through a social 
m~dia or ontine platform, or otherwise. 
· 3. The te1·ms "and" and "ol"' shall be construed broadly and eithel' conjunctively or 
disjunctively to bring within the scope of this request any info~mation that might 
otherwise be const:1.1.ied to be outside its scope, The singular includes plural number, 
and vice versa. The masculine inclndes the feminine and neutral genders. 
4. The tei-m "including" shall be construed broadly to mean "including, but not limited 
to." · 
5. The term "Company' ·' means the named legal entity as well as any tmits, firms, 
partnerships, associations, corporations, limited liability companies, tmsts, 
subsidiaries, affiliat;es, divisions) departments, branches, joint ventures, 
proprietorships, syndicates, or other legal, business or government entities over . 
which the named legal entity exercises control or in which the named entity has any 
. ownership whatsoever, 
6. The term "identify/' when used in a question about individuals, means to 
providethe ·following information: (a) the individual's complete name and title; 
(b) the individuaPs business or personal address and phone nuf11ber; and (c) 
any and all known aliases. 
7. The term ,·,!'elated to" or "referring or relating to;' with respect to any given 
subject, means anything that constitutes, contains, embodies, reflects, identifies, 
states, refers to, deals with, or is pertinent to that subject in any manner 
whatsoever. 
8. The term "employee" means a,ny past or present agent, borrowed employee, 
casual employee, consultant, contractor, de facto employee, detailee, 
assignee, follow, independent contractor, intorn, joint adventurer, loaned 
employee, officer, part-time employee, permanent employee, provisional 
employee, special government employee, subcontractor, or any other type of 
service provider. 
9. The term "individual" means all natural persons and all persons or entities 
acting on their behalf.  59 
""'!ff 
,fanuary 4, 2021 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUS E H4l 
hetu~. aa.tety, iuitl "ell•bolnir of othtl'II -t. Tbe.olul.lr of the oommttfuo uotlol~ tho present In the Ohnmbor 11.nd &un-oun(l lng dep011tlon mQ.J" dNlsnaU tJIM IIOl)061tlon 1111 
areM. MembaNI a.ml it.art will not bo [)Ill's l'.l&l't of a Joint lllv6Std~t1o n botwoon oom­m.lttoo. to enter the II.all ot tho HoUll(I with• mlttee,, and 1.11 lllui,t-0030, provldo no~lc,e he, 
out wet.r:IDi a nu.ak, Mulu will b& •vtJJ&ble tAt moml>el'I ol the oommltt&M, U auoh a at the entry polnta tor any Mombor who !or-d11111!pa~lo n le mMlo, tbD o.'lalr and ranklng 
rec:a to brl!'lll' one, The Oho.tr vLeWB the fallw't mlnorlt,· member of tho IIMl~onal 00111-to Wea.I' a mulr. •• a .-rl-01111 b-..oh o! daoo-inlttff(I) m11,y d&el,rnat.11 oommltwo 1t.U to 
rum. The Be~t-.\.-Annl la dlreoted f;o en-•~tend J)W'llut,nt to rqulaWm 8, Membenl toroa thle polloy. Baaed llJOD t.he luml"11 lUlQ ln(\ dee!,nat.ed stall' of the ocmmttwo, ~ 
' Mfel;,y lfUldMlOI trom· I.he &LliemllnK" phyli-•"Pd and Nie (lUOBtiODII Ml ect forth bolow. oi.n a:u1 Ute 8erf1M,DIHl.t-Arma, the Ohair 6. A doposit~n ahl\.11 b11 oonduoted by a.DY 
'l'OU.!d turther t.dvl.H :Ju,t ..U Membet'I momber or committee oouneel dtelpated by 
1hou!d lean the Oht.1.nber promptly atl,u \heoh!rorrank:1urm lnorib'mem11Mof\h1 
OMtlnJ th11lr TO~!. J'u!-thennoro. Membel'II Oomrol~ee tb&t tVJtlo&d. Wle d&POllltfan. 
eho1lld•voldoon1J~ttnginth eroom11l0Qd-When <tep,osttJoM 111.'6 oondllo~ by oom­
lng to tbe Ohilmbe!', lnoludlnf tJ1t1 Speake<"e m{tt,ee oolll\&&l, theI'& shall be De> mor1 th111 
lobby. Tbe Ohr.ll" w1ll oont.lnne the praotlou t.wo oomrolt.t.e• oounul ponnllitGd to qu1111-
ot provldln« amall in-ot1pe o! Membol'!I wtt.h • tlon e. wlliJ\Hll per l'(lttnd, Ono ot tho oom­mlnitnum or G mlm,1.t.11, wlt.hln Whloh to ou, mltt1& 0011ll8el llhall be d1311llfDlted h:v hh11 their votu. Momllor!J are OI\OOUJ"'8ed t.o vote c.b.&lr •nd tho otbOl' by t.tu, n.nkl111r m\rl(ll'IQ' 
.,..ttJl thell' p."'&dOUBIY ualrn~ lfl'Oup. At\tr meml>el' per round. 
votlna'. Mtmbete t111,1J1t olllal" the Ohl.mber t.o I. Dopo,1!Uon que!ltloWI 11\IUI bl pro-
1\llow the noxt fn)UJ) a, Mft and -umot~t op-poundOO tn round11. The hmath ot each totuMi po1tun1~ to rote. It le -Mlal ror tile .iu.u net ezoeed 80 ml.nlltM per 111!.e, •ml. 
bGal.th and 1111,l'bt,y or Membtta, 1tt.a,·1.n:1. u,,, ■ti.II provlde e(lllM ti.roe to t.b.e m&Jotl.~ alld 
v.e. oapttol Polloe to oori■llt.ently pn,otkle the minority. lo each rcmnd. the mombll!U) 
100ial dlet.AnoillA' and to &M'.Ll'6 tha~ a ,.,11 or oommtttff ootin.Ml d&slp.at.d bY the 
oe1,paoU.y l:e meJnt.alniG 1n tJle Oliamt:er u ohl.lr -.b.all Mk queatJ.ona llnl~, and t.he mem• 
1\11 UmN. 'Io that; eml, t;ba Oh&!r approo!a\111 btf(I) oi· oommlttee ooD.llMI d011!,n ■\od by ~o oool)lll"Mlon ot M'.ombel"II r,nd 11tan In pI'6-thl Nl,ftlc!JtJ minority mo:nb11r llboll Uk 
1MMlng order and dlOO'tWJI in th& Clul,mber (IUMUOM tJoooud. 
!'rid La di1plo.ylnr ro11,10ot and 111.faty tor on11 1, Obj110blon1 muat be at6tod eonolao.ly and 
motlu 11t by waar!nir " mMk Md praotletnr In 1., non-e.l'll'UmentatlTII Md. non-&uffoetive 
110ola.l. d.ietanotng , All a.Dl\l)\IJIOO tl pollolot, tn-mnait1.i,l.', A wttueoe', oouneel may not ln­
·otudill¥' tho■e addre,etn 1r doOOl'\lm In ll.ebat.e 11truot 1. 'l!'ltn!IM to nitueo to l.lWWtr I. QUBII-
. 1.ml the oonduot of YOtoB by eleotron.ie de-tlen, UlMIPb Kl J)l"61111"1'8 a l)l'lvl\ego. In tho =•;:,~ ::~h! ;!!~~v::.: :=!o0
tf :,ro1~a1:1f~•~::W:i g:r;t:O 
"""· ----EFFE~e;:::::D;1:;~;: . llrrR OONORB:SS REGULATIONS Ml'VII a pr!vll111r9. Whan the witneu hnls ...., 
lrOR USJll 011' D~POSrrION AU• f\aod to anawer A Que&tJon t.o lJireH!'fll • 
T1:fORITY · ·~~11:!• :=:f:n~ n~~,me~l~ :~ 
00NM11"1'11aONRUtJJ8, liouaa o• I\JH'l\llillllffATIVU, 
Waliltnglon, DC, JO'llUarl{ ,, IJJZJ. mm. NANO!: P■u0fl1, 
l!peQk.ar, HoUM ~, Repruot11/alil'e,ll, 
Wa,htngton,DO. 
MAbAW !U>U,.'UIIH,: Punruaut 00 ooct\on 3(b) 
or Houao l\nolutlon &, .U7t.h OODll'N)III!, then­
by ,ubmlt tho followlng l"llirule.Uona te1te.rd­
tnr tho oonduo; or depoa1t.1on, by co::umltt'ltl 
8iDd 101110, oommttto e oonneel tor prtnt!ng In 
I.be Our.,-roe•lon• I Reoord 
Slnoen,17 , 
JAN•I P. MoQoYll1UI, 
CA.omnall, Co111111Utll on Rvla. 
IUXIUJ.JiTtOHll l"Olt 'l'iO 0811 OJ l>11P08moN 
AU'l'llCRll'\" 
1. NotlON tor t,M taklnlJ o{ dop011ltlont1 
&!laJ.lp,1,1eo.lfyth11,daL11 ,tlme,end l)l$CIIOfel[ ­
Aminotlon. Dopoett.Lone 11Jm1L bl! tl\lf.1111 undor 
0&th admln.tattl'.')d by a. momber or a. pel'IOII 
othonvlae Mttlmrlzu d to admlnlatel' o&th1. 
Dopoelt.Lona ma., oontln110 trcm ~ to Olly, a. Ooneulti&t lon wltll. th• rauktns minority 
membor ~a.II lnGltldo t.hroo days' 11otloo ba­tcre any d.op011\tlnn It. t.akon. All memb81'11 or 
tl:e OOmml.Uoo ebMl l!o'6o rooel'"o three da.y>e 
written not.too UU\t. a depo ■ltlon will be 
t&kuu, ezoept.lnl.Xiiruntclrooimita.noea,For 
i:un,o&eao ttheee»rooedlJ.l'ell,1.d.\.yllhe.ll.not 
IDGIUde a,turdt.YB. Sundnyli. or legal holl­
d.ron OJ[Cept when Urn HollBtl la in a.11111\on on 
11:,;;h•daJ. 
3, Wltneaaeeillll.y ~•ooo~ledat.,doi,-
0&.!tlo.u by peniollllll, nolljl'Overnment;-.1 ooon­
!!el \o 8it'lv1.9o them of Yl&lr r!fht,a, Only mem­
ber■, OOll'lmlttoo ,wr doot,mated by t.h~ 
oha.lr or t'l\ukln(J minority mambOl', "'" offi. 
olo.lroport.er, thowl\l\fll!l!,l\nd the wlble!l!I'• 
OC'J.D.Sol are porrnltt&d to attend. Obeerven 
o, cou11eol for otbor »anollll, lnoludln,r OOtln• 
eel tor government Q,(l'Ol\01ee, ma,-net a~t.ond. tlrne or at A euba&quent time, nek • l'(IIJ.ni, 
trom the Ohtw:' althat• i,y telephone or otlt81'­
wlae. lt' bho Olui.lr OVllm.llOI M1Y Buch objoo­
Uon and theroby ord.u1 ii. wltnoee to t.ntWU 
1,uy 1111t111tlon tQ whtoh nn objaotl0 11 wa.11 
lodll'llld, tho w1tnoss ehall be ord&md to u­
awer. U • mambel" ot the oon1mlttee ohoo1e1 
to1,ppee.1 t.hert1!.lngo!-heohalr,1uohn.ppoa.1 
~~~ ~:i=~ c:i:::o:it!!i·c:!:t 
e~tJou. '1'11& OommlUoe'a n1llnfr on &1)1)611,]. 
llball bo nled wtth the oletk or th• Oom­
rr.lttee "nd llbAll be Pf'O<Jld8d to tbia 11\'IJ\lbctl"II 
1.Uilw!t.oo11&nolooatb•nthroedQlbefore 
U111 nioonnnad d.&PQIIUon. A dtJl(IDINlt Wbo 
l'f>!b!M to MIIWOl' • qll8lllt!on M\ier belnt Ul­
n,otod to Mll'll'or by t.ho oha.lr mat be f!UbJeot. 
tolll\1lotto11,exceptl;hat.al)u.notioJ1111nay be 
lmpoeedHt;h&rullnr ottJieohalrh rt1voraod 
bya,tJ.11~':i°=~~:J: ~~8;'18hnn enaora that 
~ho toetlmony h~ elbtlt11· tra.D.1G1'1bo4 or Gloo­
tron.t011Uy recorded or both. It a wltn-•s 
tlllihl.mon,yl11t.11.n11crlbed,Utew!W1-orthe 
wltneu'11 oounMl aha!I be a!tordod an oppor­
'tunlty t.o rwh1w a oopy. No LnW than nve ~ attor tho wltno.oo bQll. boon no\Wo4 of 
t.be opportunt~ to nvlow U1e tnneortpt, UM! 
witn•• m-.y 1ubmU .-on-est.ad olui.llft'llfl to 
Ute ohalr. OommJt.tee ataff fflllY au.ke 6llJ' 
typglff,[lhtOAl I\Dd toohDloal ob.,'UIJU. Sub-
1tl\Dttvo 'olut.Dg68 . modlfl011,Uona, otM'l.tl.o.,. 
t.lona, or &mMdme ntii t.o t.he doPOSttlon \.J'an· 
110rlpt 1ubml\ted by t.lw wttn- mw,t be ao­
oompanllld by a ).eUer a.lp.od bf ~he wHnell8 
requaatlDg the Gl:lange& and II ate.t&ma nt ol 
the wttnees',roo.aonarorue.ol!J)topo111:1d 
elu,!lfl',. Any sul>lltahttvo oh11,ngee, modlll0fl.­
t.loru1, olar1f1oa.tlon11, ora.mo!UlmentaahG.llbe 
Included u &D app&ndlx t.o t.he tl'l.neorlpt 
oondltlo11ed Upon tJ11 wltn&WI lignlnir the 
tralll!Ol'1pt , 9. Tbo lod.lv1d.1,1 .. 1 admlnlahrlns th& 011.th, IC 
ot.bar thM ., member, ·•MIi cartlb on the­
tnnaortpt that th• yrl.t.1:1111 wu duty eworn, 
The h'ou18'Jl.-!b8a•11h1.llollt'itty th11tt.ho tNL.n• 
11J1Crtllt la o, tl.,ie NOOrd ct the t&11tlmo:nr, and 
t.be t.N.n«ll'19t lhllll be!ll11d, t.o(Jetharwlth 
,n,-,leotronle moord.lng, wUb the ol&ric or 
t.b.11 oomm.ltt.H In Wuhl.ngton , DO. Depoe.1-
tloia 1hall bll oon.eldeI'&d to hllV'l been tak.G.D 
ln Wuhinjrto.n, DO, u ,.,n ,.. the IQW,Uon 
aotually t&lr:M onoe nt■d I.her• with th6 
ollK'k ol the oommlttoe tor the oonunlt'.ee'e 
0111. Th11 oh11lr al)(l the ~ mlnol'lt:v 
~ember llht.ll be provided Wltl1 e. oopy of tho 
trll.u.orlpt.s ol tho dupoe\Uon ab the !l&,me 
UT@~·Th• ohail• a.aid mnk'lllJI' mlnorlby' ~om­
tior II.ball Otl!WUlt l'611'11rdhig the 1'6!81111e or 
deJ)Ollltlon lioetlmouy , tr¥'11J1Ct'lPt8, or l'1JIOOl'd­
lnp. owd J)OrtlOM thoroo!. It e1ther objeote tn wrltl.ng 1;o a prupoaed reloue ot a dopoel­
tion t1111tlmDllJ', tr-anaDr\Jlt. or l'&O(U'tlinf, 01° a. 
l)(lrtlon U-.enot, tbe matt ■r aba.ll bt proinpt;-.. 
lJ' n!en"&d. t.o \be oommJt~N tor r11110lutlon. 
11.Awltrui•ahallnot 'bereQ.n.lreOtot... 
t1ty UJIIIII the ·wltneN blll been l)POvlded 
w!.th.,oop,-o!MO~onll(b)ofU , R.eii.1,11ith 
Oon1r1ese,Nldthee11l'!lll'ul1.tlona. 
R~OTG OOMM.IT'l'El!l PRO.-
OID)!)DINGB REOULA.'J'IONS PURSU­
ANT TO HOUSE Ii,l!ISOLUTION 8, 
ll'l'rH OONGRIBBS 
00MMn"l'l ■ 0Nl\ULll&, 
HOtlll'IO•RkPHYHTA'l'IV8'1, 
Wiuhhtgktll., DC, JOnutlJll,, lOJJ. 
Hon,NAMO'!'Plll,08'!, .,,,,,aktT, Roun of 1"J)r'e,tnialt\lS4', 
Woull.lnot(m.DC. 
MADAM SPllillln: Purl>.tant to aeo".Jon 9(11) 
otH0UlleRe110l11 tloaB,1l'lt.h~.lllet'O-­
by 10.bm.tt. tJa tollowillt ro,ulat.l.ona rOB'ari-
1:118 romote oommlttao proo11edlnp for pr1n1;­
ln,r in tho OOi;-0Nffl810 N.1.1. n.a00RD, 
Slncel'ely, 
JAMJJSP .MOCIOVMIUf, 
0h4tnM1L o Commlttu on Rule.,, 
);lJIMO'l'i;: OolltWrL"l'!III PROOF.IIDUf05 l\lJIOULA ­
'l.'!ONS PuR8UAf<'I' TO Hooa ■ RBIIOl,U'l'ION B 
t..l'WlflJINO.AHDVO'rrNO 
!. Mernbeni 1)Mt:o1J)&tiq romotaly in" 
oomm!tt1Nproooedinfm111tbflylalbloont.ho 
1o!tware platJorm'11 vlt\11(1 tunotton to be oon­
lldored b •'~nd4noe Md to participate un• leu eonneetlvlty ,_ or ot:.bM toohn10Al 
problemarendert.bemomberu nftbleto!'lllly 
part.loli:atB on oamera (HOIP~ ua provided ln 
f'G811le.tton11A.21.W1A.J). · 
2. The ei:oapl.Lon h1 l'OlfUli.U.on A.l tor 
oonneotlvlty 1-uee orothor teohnll)IU Jll"()b­
le!Tl& doee 11ot o.J)J)ly u 1, point oro1'<1or h1111 
boon m.e.de that a (luorum I• not pre!ent. 
Mombem IH"-tlolJ8tlnll' romototy · M\Ult be 
vl1lbleontheso ctw1U'&pl1ttorm'avtdeonmo­
tton In order to be oounted fort.ho P\U'llootl ot 
Hl:.liblll'lblllf 1, quorom, 
s. Tho &XOOPtloa In Ne"ulation A.I for 
~onno-o'1T1'J'kllnlr,i101"dllorboohnk:alprob­
lema doea not e.pply durlllfl' a vota, M8lllb&nl 
111\l'tl<.tlpattng :emotelY 1n111~ be vt.etble on 
t.b., 11olt-..uG pl.,Ltorm'• video fnnorAon In 
ordortoV1::te, 
4. Membem po.rt.lolpatiDJr nmotely otr­
ea.me~ due to oonn110UY1.t.y leeuet or ot.her 
t.oohnlMl 1)1'(1bleme pnmiMt to rogulallon 
A,1 mna, llltorm 001nm.ltt.e.o majority and 
m!norlty ,t.arr aft.her dlmctly or through 
11t.atf. 
II.Theoho.lrab1,ll mH.\CO.,goodfa ltheffort 
to provide ovary mcmbar o"(llllrlenollig 
oom1e0U vtl,y IBBUN -.n oppcrttmlty W ,a.r­
tiolt'i\te tullylu thoproceedlnlril.1abj110t to 
r61fl1la.tlonaA.2amtA.II .  60 
EXHIBIT 2  61 
SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE 
JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL, 
8 U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
10 
11 
12 
13 DEPOSITION OF: JEFFREY CLARK 
14 
15 
16 
17 Friday, November 5, 2021 
18 
19 
20 
21 Washington, D.C. 
22 The interview in the above matter was held in room 
23 -· commencing at 10:00 a.m. 
24 Present: Representatives Thompson, Lofgren, Schiff, Aguilar, Murphy, Raskin, 
25 Luria, Cheney, and Kinzinger.  62 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 Appearances: 
For the SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE 
THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL:  63 
For THE WITNESS: 
HARRY MACDOUGALD 
4 Caldwell, Carlson, Elliott & Deloach, LLP - 64 
-! Good morning. This is a deposition of Jeffrey B. Clark, conducted by 
4 the House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, 
pursuant to House Resolution 503. 
Mr. Clark, if you could please state your full name and spell your last name for the 
record. 
The Witness. Sure. Jeffrey B. Clark. Clark is C-1-a-r-k. -! This will be a staff-led deposition. Members of the select 
10 committee, I believe, are already in attendance and may also choose to ask questions. 
11 My name is_, and I'm the chief investigative counsel to the select 
12 committee. I think we have Vice Chair Cheney, Ms. Lofgren, two members of the select 
13 committee, who are attending via Webex. 
14 We are conducting a deposition in person. 
15 So, under the House deposition rules, neither committee members nor staff may 
16 discuss the substance of the testimony that you provide today, unless the committee 
17 approves release. This is essentially an executive session of the select committee. 
18 You and your attorney will have an opportun ity to review the transcript. The 
19 court reporter is taking a verbatim account of the testimony. And you'll have a chance, 
20 Mr. Clark, to read that and review it before it is finalized to ensure that it is correct. 
21 Before we begin, I would like to describe just a few ground rules. We'll follow the 
22 House deposition rules that we have provided to your counsel, Mr. MacDougald, 
23 previously. Under the House deposition rules, counsel for other persons or government 
24 agencies may not attend, but you are permitted to have your attorney present, and I see 
25 that you do have your attorney with you.  65 
Mr. MacOougald, if you could just introduce yourself and spell your name for the 
court reporter? 
Mr. MacDougald. Yes, sir. My name is Harry MacDougald. I represent Mr. Clark 
4 in this proceeding. My last name is spelled M-a-c, capital D-o-u-g-a-1-d. 
- ~ So, as noted, there is an official reporter transcribing the record of 
the deposition. Please wait until each question is completed before you begin your 
response. We will try to wait until your response is complete before we ask our next 
8 question. The stenographer cannot record nonverbal responses, such as shaking your 
head. So it's important that you answer each question with an audible verbal response. 
10 We ask that you provide complete answers based on your best recollection. If a 
11 question is not clear, please ask for clarification. If you do not know the answer, then just 
12 simply say so. You may only refuse to answer a question to preserve a privilege 
13 recognized by the select committee. If you refuse to answer a question based on 
14 privilege, staff may either proceed with the deposition or seek a ruling from the chairman 
15 based on the objection. If the chairman overrules such an objection, you are required to 
16 answer the question. 
17 I also have to remind you that it is unlawful to deliberately provide false 
18 information to Congress. Since your deposition is under oath, we ask that you please 
19 stand and raise your right hand to be sworn by the court reporter. 
20 [Witness sworn.] 
21 BY 
22 Q So, Mr. Clark, I want to give you a chance to open --to provide any opening 
23 comments you have. But I just want to make sure you know who everyone is on our side 
24 of the table. 
25 So I'll introduce myself. I am the chief investigative counsel. With me is.  66 
-and_ , who are senior investigative counsel; , who is an 
investigative counsel;- and_ , who are also counsel to the committee; 
and I see , who is the deputy staff director and chief counsel to the select 
committee; and_ , who is our parliamentarian. 
researcher, is here as well. , who is a 
On the video, again, I think , our staff director, has joined. And I also 
introduced before Ms. Lofgren and Ms. Cheney. 
So, with that, if there is anything•· 
Mr. MacDougald. Yes. I would like to advise counsel and the committee that I 
10 delivered a letter to_, which was addressed to Representative Thompson, on 
11 behalf of Mr. Clark that asserts executive privilege with respect to testimony and 
12 documents that have been subpoenaed from Mr. Clark. 
13 The grounds of our assertion are set forth in the letter. It is 12 pages. And, based 
14 on those objections, we do not intend to answer any questions or produce any 
15 documents today, but we have appeared in compliance with the subpoena in order to 
16 assert those objections, as opposed to just refusing to show up. 
17 -! All right. So I appreciate that the letter has been delivered. We did 
18 receive it, as you --
19 Mr. MacDougald. And I actually have some copies for other counsel, a few. 
20 Maybe not for everybody, but I would be happy to pass those around, keeping one for 
21 myself. 
22 _ , Thank you, Mr. MacDougald. 
23 So let me make sure I understand. The letter, which I haven't had a chance to 
24 read yet, sets forth the position that Mr. Clark will not answer any question, regardless of 
25 its subject matter.  67 
Mr. MacDougald. Correct. 
- ~ Due to executive privilege. 
Mr. MacDougald. Correct. 
- ~ Will also not produce any documents. 
The Witness. Correct. 
Mr. MacDougald. And I interrupt just to say also on the basis that it would be 
prudent to await the conclusion with finality of the judicial review proceedings that are 
8 going on in the DOC. 
- ~ Again, I haven't had a chance to read the letter. But I will say for the 
10 record that our intention today was to ask questions well beyond direct communications 
11 with the former President, questions about your involvement with Members of Congress, 
12 questions about your work within the Department of Justice, your interaction within the 
13 Department well beyond direct communications with the President. 
14 Again, still your position that, beyond direct communications, all of the entire 
15 subject matter is subject to executive privilege? 
16 Mr. MacDougald. Yes. That is our position,-. And the reason for that 
17 is that the privileges that are under the overall umbrella of executive privilege are 
18 numerous, including Presidential communications. In addition, as a Department of 
19 Justice official, there is a law enforcement privilege, law enforcement investigation 
20 privilege. There are --there is a deliberative process privilege. There are any number, 
21 not to mention the attorney-client privilege. So all of these things are applicable in this 
22 context. I understand that's disputed by the committee. 
23 _ , Uh-huh. 
24 Mr. MacDougald. And I don't want to get into an argument with you all about 
25 that today. That's being argued in court. And there will ultimately be a decision about  68 
that. We don't know where that line is going to be drawn. 
Mr. Clark finds himself in a position of having worked for a President who has 
asserted executive privilege, giving him a letter asserting executive privilege. And, 
4 therefore, as his lawyer, I can't allow him to be exposed to the risk of guessing where that 
line is going to be drawn. And so, for now, we are standing on executive privilege. We 
will not be answering any questions or producing any documents. -! You are in receipt, Mr. Clark, of--are you not, of a letter dated July 
8 21st, I believe, of earlier this year, from the Department of Justice, indicating that, in view 
of the current White House, the current Department of Justice, it would not be 
10 appropriate to assert executive privilege? 
11 Mr. MacDougald. We understand that's the position of the Department of Justice 
12 on this matter --
13 The Witness. But I --
14 Mr. MacDougald. And the White House. I mean, he did receive a letter. Okay? 
15 The Witness. I want to reserve all rights as to that letter, including rights to --to 
16 make any and all arguments about it, but I am in receipt of the letter, yes. 
17 -! Okay. Can we take 5 minutes? 
18 Mr. MacDougald. Sure. 
19 -! I just want to consult with the parliamentarian about sort of what, if 
20 anything, we need to do on the record to preserve the ongoing conversation. 
21 Mr. MacDougald. Sure. 
22 -! I appreciate it. Thank you. 
23 Mr. MacDougald. Thank you, sir. 
24 -! So we'll take a brief recess. 
25 (Recess.]  69 
BY 
Q Thank you for your indulgence. I had a chance to quickly look at the letter. 
And I do want to ask a few questions just to clarify more specifically the basis of the 
4 privilege assertion and ensure that we have on the record some of the things that 
happened before today. 
So, Mr. Clark, you were subpoenaed back on October 13th to appear before the 
select committee, and we agreed to defer that to today when you obtained new counsel, 
8 Mr. MacDougald. Is that right? 
A That's correct. 
10 Q And were you given, and I asked you about this before, a letter back•· dated 
11 July 26th of 2021, that --and I'm going to quote from it. It was from the Department of 
12 Justice, indicating that committees had sought your testimony about any efforts by 
13 President Trump or any DOJ officials to advance unsubstantiated allegations of voter 
14 fraud, challenge the 2020 election results, stop Congress' count of the electoral college 
15 vote, or overturn President Biden's certified victory. 
16 And, in response to congressional inquiries on those subject matters, the 
17 Department of Justice indicated --and I'm going to quote again --given these 
18 extraordinary circumstances, including President Biden's determination that executive 
19 privilege --determination on executive privilege, which was that it wouldn't be 
20 appropriate, and having reviewed the scope of the committee's request and reviews, the 
21 Department authorizes you to provide unrestricted testimony to the committees 
22 irrespective of potential privilege, as long as the testimony is confined to the scope of the 
23 interviews as set forth by the committees. And you received that letter back in July. Is 
24 that right? 
25 A I've answered that question already. I will refer to counsel.  70 
10 
Q And are you aware that other representatives of the Department of Justice, 
frankly your superiors at the time that you were employed there, received a similar letter 
and have provided testimony to congressional committees? 
A Yes. 
Q And, yet, your position today is in stark contrast to theirs. 
Mr. MacDougald. Yes, we address that in the letter. 
_ ,Okay. 
8 BY 
Q Now, in the letter, which, again, I appreciate you giving us this morning, but 
10 we have not had a chance to review before. 
11 Mr. MacDougald. And I would like, on the record, to apologize to you, 
12 - • and to the committee and staff for being so late in delivering this item to you 
13 when you were inquiring about our position. So, two things: One, I want to thank you for 
14 the one-week extension. Very much appreciate it. But, secondly, to apologize for the 
15 inconvenience. Having just gotten into the matter, we have been working on this right up 
16 until yesterday afternoon and preparing what we were going to say, and we just weren't 
17 ready to tell you. 
18 -! Mr. MacDougald, I understand. These are important issues, and we 
19 want to make sure you and your client are fully prepared. 
20 Mr. MacDougald. It is a very important matter. 
21 -! We are trying our best to get to the facts and want to make sure we 
22 are treating all witnesses with fairness and professiona l consideration. 
23 But, going back to the letter, attached to the letter is a letter that you received 
24 from Doug Collins, who represented the former President, that essentially says, upon 
25 receipt of that DOJ authorization, that the former President will not seek judicial  71 
intervention to prevent your testimony or the testimony of the other Department of 
Justice officials who have already received letters from the Department similar to July 
26th, 2021, letter. 
So you attach a letter explicitly from the former President saying that he would 
not seek judicial intervention to prevent you from going forward with this deposition or 
other inquiries from Congress. 
Mr. MacDougald. _ , we address the letter and what it means in detail 
8 in our letter. And we do not agree with the characterization that you just made of that 11 
letter. We view that letter as directly asserting executive privilege. And the nonobjection 
10 statement that you read from is expressly conditioned on certain things not happening. 
11 Those things have happened. 
12 Furthermore, the President has in fact filed suit asserting executive privilege 
13 against the committee, and specifically, he referenced his invocation of executive 
14 privilege with respect to former DOJ personnel, such as Mr. Clark. So, under the 
15 circumstances, I represent a client who asked --the President for whom he worked has 
16 unequivocally asserted executive privilege. 
17 I understand that you all don't agree with that, and you think the current 
18 President has the authority to waive it. We don't agree with that. That's being decided in 
19 court now. 
20 - ~ Has there been any further communication, direct communication, 
21 from the former President's representatives to Mr. Clark about executive privilege? 
22 Mr. MacDougald. I have had no communication with any attorney for Mr. Trump 
23 about any of this. 
24 - ~ Your letter indicates --and I'm looking at pages 2 and 3 --that the 
25 former President did directly direct other witnesses who have been subpoenaed by the  72 
12 
subcommittee --Mark Meadows, Dan Scavino, Kash Patel, and Steve Bannon --asserting 
--instructing them not to testify. Did you get any similar communication from the former 
President similarly directing that you not provide testimony? 
Mr. MacDougald. We contend the August 2nd letter from Mr. Collins on its face 
and in light of subsequen t developments constitutes such a direction. -! And your letter also cites the pending litigation. So, to be clear 
about your position, the pending litigation that the President has filed, Trump v. 
8 Thompson, in the D.C. district court governs, in your view, your ability to testify to the 
select committee without regard to executive privilege. 
10 Mr. MacDougald. That's not accurate. 
11 _ , Okay. Well, help me understand. 
12 Mr. MacOougald. So the President has asserted executive privilege. He's 
13 instructed Mr. Clark to assert executive privilege. 
14 -! And your view is --I'm sorry to interrupt you. 
15 Mr. MacDougald. Yes. 
16 -! But that is in the August the 2nd letter? 
17 Mr. MacDougald. And in light of subsequent developments and in light of 
18 footnote 2 in their brief, in their original brief in support of the application for preliminary 
19 injunction. So all those things together clearly instruct Mr. Clark to abide by President 
20 Trump's invocation of executive privilege. And, as his attorney, I cannot expose him to 
21 the risk of going against that. 
22 -! Let me pause and see if anybody else --go ahead, •. 
23 Mr. Schiff, do you have any questions? 
24 Mr. Schiff. I do. I just want to make sure that I understand correctly. You have 
25 not received any communication from the President instructing Mr. Clark to assert  73 
executive privilege. Is that correct? 
Mr. MacDougald. That is not correct. I've just explained that. 
Mr. Schiff. No, you haven't. So have you received a letter--
Mr. MacDougald. You may not agree with the explanation, but it is an 
explanation. We have a letter from August 2nd asserting --
Mr. Schiff. Well --
Mr. MacDougald. --the privilege. We have subsequent developments that 
8 invalidate the conditions to testimony --
Mr. Schiff. Mr. --
10 Mr. MacDougald. --we have the President's lawsuit. 13 
11 Mr. Schiff. Do you have a letter from the President instructing Mr. Clark to assert 
12 executive privilege? 
13 Mr. MacDougald. Yes. 
14 Mr. Schiff. Do you have one or do you not? 
15 Mr. MacDougald. Yes. It is attached to my letter. 
16 Mr. Schiff. Is that a letter to Mr. Clark? 
17 Mr. MacDougald. Yes. It is. 
18 Mr. Schiff. From the President's counsel instructing him to assert executive 
19 privilege. 
20 Mr. MacDougald. That's correct. 
21 Mr. Schiff. Can I see that letter? 
22 This is the letter that concludes: Nonetheless, to avoid further distraction and 
23 without in any way otherwise waiving executive privilege associated with matters the 
24 committee are purporting to investigate, President Trump will not agree --will agree not 
25 to seek judicial intervention to prevent your testimony or the testimony of five other  74 
14 
former Department officials (Richard Donoghue, Patrick Hovakimian, Byung "BJay" Pak, 
Bobby Christine, and Jeffrey Clark) who have already received letters from the 
Department similar to the July 26th letter you received. As long as the committees do not 
4 seek privileged information from any other Trump administration officials or advisers. If 
the committee do seek such information, however, we will take all necessary appropriate 
steps on President Trump's behalf to defend the Office of the Presidency. 
This is the letter you're referring to? 
Mr. MacDougald. Yes, Mr. Schiff. I apologize for the --
Mr. Schiff. And you are aware that President Trump has not sought judicial 
10 intervention to prevent Mr. Clark's testimony? 
11 Mr. MacDougald. Not specifically as to Mr. Clark, but the current lawsuit against 
12 the committee specifically refers to the invocation of executive privilege as to persons like 
13 Mr. Clark in footnote 2 of the opening brief in support of their application for preliminary 
14 injunction, which has been delivered, of course, to committee counsel. 
15 Mr. Schiff. I just want to make sure that I have the chronology correct. The 
16 President's counsel wrote to Mr. Clark saying that they would not seek judicial 
17 intervention to prevent his testimony, and they have not done so. Correct? 
18 Mr. MacDougald. That is not a fair or accurate summary of the letter. The letter 
19 attaches conditions to that, and those conditions have not been met. 
20 Mr. Schiff. Well, if, presumably, Counsel, if the conditions have not been met, 
21 President Trump was more than capable of seeking judicial intervention to stop 
22 Mr. Clark's testimony. Correct? 
23 Mr. MacOougald. Yes, Congressman Schiff. 
24 Mr. Schiff. And he has not done so. Has he? 
25 Mr. MacOougald. Representative, we disagree with that. And we're not here to  75 
15 
have an oral argument about these --
Mr. Schiff. Counsel, I am just establishing the facts. 
Mr. MacDougald. Well, the facts are plain in the documents. 
Mr. Schiff. And you are aware, Mr. Clark, that those in a higher position in the 
Justice Department, who arguably would have a stronger claim of privilege if there was 
one to be made, have testified before Congress as to the same matters that you are being 
asked to testify? 
The Witness. Mr. MacDougald has answered that question, respectfully, 
Representative Schiff. 
10 Mr. Schiff. You are aware of that, Mr. MacDouga ld? 
11 Mr. MacDougald. Oh, yes. It's addressed in the letter. It's addressed in the letter. 
12 And what I would say to you all is I don't want to get into any kind of a bickering or 
13 arguing about the contours of executive privilege and whether an argument we have 
14 made is correct in person verbally. These are very important matters. We have worked 
15 hard on this letter to assert the objections. And we invite you all to respond to us, but we 
16 think that dialogue is best conducted in writing because it is so important. And it's 
17 important to be clear and precise in what we say. 
18 And our position, we've stated it. We're not answering questions today. We're 
19 not producing documents today. We are leaving the door open for further dialogue 
20 about the points being raised in the letter. And I think that's the process that we ought to 
21 pursue. 
22 Now, you know, the Trump v. Thompson case will ultimately be decided one way 
23 or the other, and then we'll know where we stand on executive privilege. Both sides will 
24 know. 
25 Mr. Schiff. Before I yield back to committee counsel, I just want to state, for the  76 
16 
record, people in a superior position to Mr. Clark's who were at the Justice Department 
and were his superiors at the time of the events of interest to the committee have 
testified. The current Justice Department and the current President of the United States 
4 have not asserted privilege, in fact have instructed Mr. Clark they will not assert privilege. 
He has refused to testify. He has refused to testify, not on the basis of any action 
that President Trump has taken to seek judicial intervention in this proceeding. We have 
not received any communication that I'm aware of from the former President asserting 
8 privilege. 
And Mr. Clark, in my opinion, is asserting --arrogating to himself a decision that 
10 his superiors disagree with, that the President has not asserted to this committee, and in 
11 defiance of the lawful process of this committee. 
12 And I yield back to counsel. 
13 Mr. MacDougald. And, respectfully, for the record, disagree with Congressman 
14 Schiff's assertion, but let's leave it there. 
15 -~ Let me just ask, to follow up on Congressman Schlff's question, has 
16 there been any effort to confirm your interpretation of the August 2nd letter with the 
17 former President's counsel? 
18 Mr. MacDougald. I have indicated previously I have not communicated with them, 
19 but I can read. 
20 -~ So the interpretation that you're providing today that the August 
21 2nd letter is, in fact, a direction not to testify, just based on --
22 Mr. MacDougald. We go through that in detail in this letter. 
23 _,Okay. 
24 Mr. MacDougald. So there are a number of circumstances that combine the direct 
25 statements in the letter.  77 
17 
Beyond that, there --the statement that you all --the committee is relying on 
expressly states that it is not waiving anything, and there are conditions attached. Those 
conditions are not being met, and there is a pending executive privilege lawsuit that 
4 specifically refers to people in Mr. Clark's position. 
- ~ And, again, Mr. MacDougald, I appreciate that that is your position. 
think it's important for us, as we consider options, contempt referrals or litigation, to 
make a record just to make sure --
Mr. MacDougald. I understand that. 
- ~ --that we're clear as to what the basis of the assertion is, on what 
10 facts or communications it relies. So I don't mean to sound belligerent. I'm just trying to 
11 ensure that we understand --
12 Mr. MacDougald. I understand and respect that. You have a job. I have a job. 
13 -! To that end, we do need to go through, not every question that I 
14 would have asked, but I do need to flag particular areas that we seek to develop. I 
15 understand your position would be, as I go through those, that you will not answer that 
16 question due to assertion of executive privilege, but that, Mr. MacDougald, establishes 
17 the factual basis of what we're seeking as we consider further proceedings. 
18 Mr. MacDougald. We're not willing to do that. 
19 -! Well, again, this is a deposition of the select committee. I have to go 
20 through and ask some questions that will understandably prompt privilege. But, to 
21 ensure that the court ultimately or the Justice Department has a record of the subject 
22 matters and can evaluate the privilege claim, it's important for us to put those subject 
23 matters in the form of questions directly to Mr. Clark. 
24 Mr. MacDougald. Let me confer with Mr. Clark. 
25 Do you mind if we step out?  78 
-! Yes. Of course. We'll go off the record. 
[Recess.] -! Mr. MacDougald, again, our intention would be just to complete a 18 
4 record to ensure that the court or the Department has a clear record of the subject 
matters. And we want to go through those questions, understanding that they will trigger 
an assertion of privilege, but we think it is important to put them to the scope of our 
intended areas of inquiry on the record. 
Mr. MacDougald. Our position is that we have asserted the objection, and there's 
a pending court proceeding that will determine the contours of executive privilege with 
10 respect to the committee's investigation. And it is premature to engage in that exercise 
11 and that it is just unproductive to engage these questions. And we invite the committee, 
12 as we did in the letter, to have some dialogue with us. But, pending resolution of that 
13 case, we do not think that going through that process that you described is productive or 
14 worthwhile. It is just not what we are doing. 
15 As we say in the letter, if the committee in the meantime would like to 
16 significantly narrow the scope of the inquiry that it wishes to pursue with Mr. Clark, we 
17 are willing to discuss that and do that. I mean, if it is more narrowly focused on the 
18 events of January 6th, that's something that we can work with you on. But, right now, 
19 executive privilege not --Mr. Clark has ethical responsibilities to respect the assertion of 
20 privilege until this is determined judicially. 
21 -! You, right now, have no idea exactly what it is I intend to ask 
22 Mr. Clark because I haven't had a chance yet. We haven't had any negotiations. We 
23 haven't had any sort of proffer or exchange of information. So it's important, in the view 
24 of the select committee, to establish for Mr. Clark, for the Department of Justice, for 
25 potential court to evaluate the claim, to put on the record what the scope of our area of  79 
inquiry is of Mr. Clark. And, again, I understand that he's not going to provide --is 
unlikely to provide any answers to those questions, and that is his right at this time to 
assert that privilege. 
But, to the extent we are going to challenge the privilege, Mr. MacDougald, we 
need a record that would form the basis of that challenge. 
Mr. MacDougald. One second. 
[Discussion off the record.] 19 
Mr. MacDougald. The concern that I have,- • is that, at some point, this 
devolves into badgering the witness. And I would be surprised if the committee 
10 undertook litigation against Mr. Clark concerning the scope of the executive privilege 
11 while the Trump v. Thompson case is ongoing. That would be highly duplicative, wasteful 
12 of resources. And most of those privilege questions can be answered by that case. 
13 And so, with respect to topics, you know, the assertion of privilege, it's --you 
14 know, my client is in a bind. He's under subpoena. And, yet, the President that he 
15 worked for has asserted executive privilege. Okay? He cannot testify under those 
16 circumstances, period. 
17 And so we've got a court proceeding underway that's going to resolve the scope of 
18 that. And the prudent thing is to let that play out. And, like I said, in the meantime, if the 
19 committee would like to significantly narrow the scope of the inquiry, we're certainly 
20 willing to entertain that. And, of course, we are willing to have a dialogue about the 
21 privilege assertions in the document, and if the committee chose to identify with greater 
22 specificity in that dialogue what it was seeking, and we could respond and move forward. 
23 -! Mr. MacDougald, we haven't had a chance to have this conversation 
24 because there has been no discussion, no negotiations. 
25 Mr. MacDougald. One at a time.  80 
20 -! I understand. There is, though, the Miers case clearly rejects a 
blanket assertion of privilege, even when asserted by a sitting President with respect to 
White House counsel. The privilege must be asserted question by question, area by area. 
And I understand your point about badgering. I don't intend to badger you or 
Mr. Clark with those questions. 
With that said, it's important to get on the record the areas of inquiry so that a 
court could potentially adjudicate the application of a privilege. 
Mr. MacDougald. I think that if the committee is interested in pursuing the 
inquiry, balancing Mr. Clark's interests in complying with his duties as a lawyer in light of 
10 President Trump's invocation of the privilege, the fair thing do to Mr. Clark is to let the 
11 Trump v. Thompson case play out rather than badgering. 
12 Now, if there is some alternative method of preserving the record, I'm happy to 
13 discuss that. But I think sitting here for 5 hours while counsel and committee members 
14 propound questions that we're not going to answer is not a good use of anybody's time. 
15 And, as far as --and, again, on the timing of this and us not having had a dialogue, before 
16 I got involved, Mr. Clark asked for a three-week extension. That was not agreed to. 
17 That's okay. You get to decide, which made the one week you gave me especially 
18 appreciated when I --when we spoke. 
19 But it is a significant matter. There are weighty and difficult legal issues involved. 
20 And, you know, I'm not going to let Mr. Clark traduce either attorney-client or executive 
21 privilege or any other privileges in response to these questions. I don't know where that 
22 line is going to end up. So I have to protect him. So we are just not going to answer the 
23 questions. 
24 - ~ I understand. We're talking past each other. I'm not trying to talk 
25 you out of your position at this point. I'm simply trying to establish a record that can be  81 
21 
considered by the select committee first and ultimately potentially by the Attorney 
General of the United States if there's a criminal contempt referral or a Federal judge if 
there is some sort of effort civilly to enforce the subpoena. We don't have that complete 
4 record at this point. I'm not saying that any of that's going to happen, but we need to 
create a record to consider next steps. So it's not meant to be badgering. I understand.  82 
[11:00 a.m.] 
Mr. MacDougald. Okay. And my suggestion and request to the committee is to 
4 make that record after the decision is made in Trump v. Thompson, and you'll know 
where we stand. -! But we are not necessarily going to wait for Trump v. Thompson to 
be resolved before we seek enforcement action, and that's why we need to make the 
8 record today. 
And, again, I understand that these questions will prompt, according to what 
10 you've said thus far, some kind of executive privilege assertion. I want to make sure we 
11 understand the basis of that assertion and that you understand and that ultimately a 
12 court understands what are the areas that we seek to develop with Mr. Clark. 22 
13 Again, not meant to be badgering. It's just essentially clarifying our positions and 
14 creating a record for others to review thereafter. 
15 So let me just --
16 Mr. MacDougald. We are not going to participate in that,_ , and we are 
17 concluded, and we are leaving. 
18 -! So, to be clear, you're refusing to answer any of these questions or 
19 even go through and assert privilege question by question --
20 Mr. MacDougald. Correct. 
21 -! --based on the representations in the letter and --
22 Mr. MacDougald. Correct. 
23 -! --a blanket assertion? 
24 Mr. MacDougald. Correct. 
25 -! Go ahead, Mr. Clark.  83 
The Witness. The blanket assertion point is inaccurate. The points are made in 
the letter. Mr. MacDougald has made the points, and we're going over the same thing 
again and again, and it's not productive. And so you'll see that the letter makes the 
4 arguments about what would be prudent and efficient from this, you know, point 
forward, and that's what we're going to stand on. 
_ ,Uh-huh. 
Mr. MacDougald. And we're --you know, we will engage in that dialogue with 
8 you, as invited in the letter, but the process that you contemplated today will not go 
forward. 
10 -! Let me stop again and see if anyone else has any questions. 
11 Mr. Schiff. I do have one question. Well, a couple of questions. 
12 So, counsel, on behalf of your client, are you refusing to answer any questions 
13 today regarding the subject matter of our committee? 
14 Mr. MacDougald. Our position is stated in the letter, Congressman. 
15 Mr. Schiff. And, just for clarity, are you refusing to answer any questions about 
16 the subject matter of January 6th to our committee? 
17 Mr. MacDougald. Well, actually, our letter invites the committee to narrow its 
18 scope to the events of January 6th. 
19 Mr. Schiff. But, counsel, you're refusing today --
20 Mr. MacDougald. But the committee has not done that. 
21 Mr. Schiff. Well, counsel for the committee was endeavoring to go through the 
22 questions and find out what your client would answer and what they would not. 
23 Do I understand your position today is that you are giving a blanket refusal to 
24 answer any questions about the events of January 6th to this committee? 
25 The Witness. Representative Schiff, you're mischaracterizing our position. That 23  84 
question has been asked and answered about six times now. 
Mr. Schiff. Well, then --
The Witness. If I had a transcript, I could count them. 
Mr. Schiff. Then do you object to our asking you questions today about 
January 6th? 
The Witness. We've already answered that question. We think --
Mr. Schiff. So then you're refusing to answer questions today. Just want to 
8 establish a very clean record. You're refusing to answer any questions today about 
January 6th? 
10 The Witness. We think that you need to have a dialogue with Mr. MacDougald 
11 about that before that proceeds. 
12 Mr. Schiff. So --
13 Mr. MacDougald. You can take that up if the scope is narrowed. But, as we sit, 
14 the scope is not narrowed. 
15 Mr. Schiff. Well, counsel, this would be an opportunity for you to narrow the 
16 scope and answer questions --
17 Mr. MacDougald. It's not for me to narrow the scope. 
18 Mr. Schiff. Answer questions that you believe are within the scope and refuse, 24 
19 and then we can decide what repercussion from that refusal. But, today, you are refusing 
20 to answer any questions whether they're within your perceived idea of the scope of the 
21 committee or not. Is that correct? 
22 Mr. MacDougald. We have asserted our position that we're not answering 
23 questions today. We've invited the committee to engage in a dialogue with us about 
24 narrowing the scope. That invitation remains open. 
25 Mr. Schiff. Well -- 85 
25 
Mr. MacOougald. But, as of this moment, the scope has not been narrowed, and 
the --our position remains as previously stated. 
Mr. Schiff. Well, let me ask one illustrative question, then. 
Mr. Clark, in your letter to the committee, you state you gave an interview to the 
press about January 6th, and your comments were not included in the article, and you 
expressed some dissatisfaction that your comments about January 6 were not included in 
the Bloomberg article. 
What were your comments to the press about January 6th? 
Mr. MacDougald. I think that's stated in the letter. 
10 Mr. Schiff. No, it isn't. 
11 What were your comments to the press about January 6th? 
12 The Witness. It is stated in the letter, so that stands as the answer. 
13 Mr. Schiff. Well, would you please tell us what those comments were? 
14 The Witness. It's what the letter says, Representative. 
15 Mr. Schiff. The letter doesn't tell us what you told the reporter, so I'm asking you: 
16 What did you tell the reporter --
17 The Witness. That's --
18 Mr. Schiff. --about January 6th. 
19 The Witness. That's not accurate, Representative Schiff. If you read the letter, it 
20 represents what was stated to the reporter. 
21 Mr. Schiff. Well, read to me from the letter what it is you told the reporter about 
22 January 6th, then, if it's included --
23 The Witness. Respectfully, Representative Schiff, I think that request, you know, 
24 to have me read something that's in a letter that you have is badgering. It crosses the line 
25 into that.  86 
Mr. Schiff. Well, Mr. Clark, it's not in the letter. 
And is it your position, counsel, that somehow Mr. Clark can assert executive 
privilege over statements he gave to the press on behalf of the former President? 
Mr. MacDougald. We made reference to that in the letter, Congressman, in the 
context of inviting the committee to narrow the scope. We're happy to have that 
discussion, but it needs to occur in writing so that we know where we stand. 
Mr. Schiff. My question is --26 
Mr. MacDougald. This is an important matter for Mr. Clark, and I'm advising him u 
I'm trying to protect him, and I'm --we're going to do that based on a scope that is set 
10 forth in writing that we can analyze and decide whether we're going to object to it or not. 
11 Mr. Schiff. My --
12 Mr. MacOougald. We don't have that, and I'm not going to let him answer those 
13 questions. 
14 Mr. Schiff. Counsel, you would agree, would you not, that statements your client 
15 made to the press are not covered by any conceivable privilege? Can we agree on that? 
16 Mr. MacDougald. Hypothetically. 
17 Mr. Schiff. Are you objecting, nonetheless, to his answering questions about what 
18 he told the press about January 6th that were not included in an article? 
19 Mr. MacDougald. I am objecting to the way the committee is proceeding with 
20 respect to Mr. Clark. You have a very broad-scope subpoena that has not been narrowed, 
21 and we have invited the committee to narrow the scope and expressed a willingness to 
22 testify more narrowly about January 6th. 
23 We're not going to do that on the fly. We'll have a dialogue with the committee 
24 as counsel, and we will proceed in an orderly manner to resolve that scope issue. But 
25 we're not going to do it on the fly in this deposition.  87 
27 
Mr. Schiff. Before I yield back to counsel, I'd like the record to reflect the witness 
today refuses to answer any questions about January 6th, including questions as to 
comments he made to the press that could not be even conceivab ly, I think as counsel 
4 has acknowledged, within the realm of privilege. 
And, with that, I yield back to committee counsel. -! Mr. MacDougald, with all due respect, Mr. Clark has been 
subpoenaed to appear before this committee. It is a legal obligation, on a date certain, to 
8 answer questions. That does not include a legal obligation by the committee to 
negotiate, or to set forth in advance particular subject matters. It's a legal obligation to 
10 show up and answer questions, or to assert a privilege in response to specific questions. 
11 My understanding is that, despite that legal obligation and an offer to go through 
12 the questions and assert a privilege point by point, he's refusing to answer any such 
13 questions. I just want to make clear that that is his position. 
14 The Witness. The letter explains our position, and the letter is not based 
15 exclusively on executive privilege. You need to read the letter, respectfully,_, 
16 very carefully. 
17 -! Well, Mr. Clark, I just got the letter when you walked in the door--
18 The Witness. And that's why we're proposing that we depart for today. 
19 -! But you have a legal obligation to be here today to answer 
20 questions. 
21 The Witness. I think, if you read the letter, you will see that even that is in 
22 dispute. 
23 -! I think your position is, again, a blanket assertion and refusal to 
24 answer --
25 The Witness. You continue to try to characterize my position as if it were that, but  88 
28 
that's a mischaracterization, and we do not accept that. 
- ~ Before we go off the record, let me see if anyone else --Mr. Raskin, 
Mr. Kinzinger, Ms. Cheney --have any questions. 
Mr. Raskin. I just wonder if Mr. Clark's counsel has any authority for the 
proposition that he can categorically refuse to answer any questions as opposed to 
invoke the privilege he says he has with respect to the specific questions. 
Mr. MacDougald. Our legal authority is set forth in the letter, Congressman. 
Mr. Raskin. Well, the letter seems to be the magic solution for everything, but 
could you name the Supreme Court decision that you're refusing to? 
10 Mr. MacDougald. Congressman Raskin, as I previously stated, we're not going to 
11 engage in legal debate or argument over this. We've set forth a written objection. The 
12 committee can respond to it in writing, and we'll deal with that at that time. But we're 
13 not going to do Q&A on legal points in this deposition. 
14 Mr. Raskin. Okay. Well, then, I will just state for the record that the subpoenaed 
15 witness has refused to answer any questions of fact. He's refused to engage in any 
16 questions and interpreting any questions of law and continually refers to the letter that 
17 they gave us today. So I would just say I think that this witness is categorically refusing to 
18 engage in any of the obligations that he's required to engage in. 
19 And I'll yield back. 
20 - ~ Yeah. Mr. Kinzinger, go ahead. 
21 Mr. Kinzinger. Just--yeah. Just a real quick--and, since the letter is the focus, 
22 can you tell me when this letter, if you would, was completed? Did you finish it 5 minutes 
23 prior to coming in at 10 o'clock, being as you had a legal obligation to show up today, and 
24 is that why we just got this at this moment --your legal obligation was completed just a 
25 couple minutes ago --or had you had this in hand a few days prior when maybe you could  89 
have shared it and we would have been, you know, better armed to discuss since this is 
the only thing you're willing to discuss? 
Mr. MacDougald. Thank you, Congressman. 
You may not have been tuned in earlier when I explained to- my 
apology for giving this to him just this morning. 
I was just engaged last week. We've been working continuously on this letter up 
through yesterday afternoon, late, and I've been conferring with Mr. Clark. So I've been 
8 continuously involved in the preparation of this letter since sometime last week. 29 
I can't remember what day I first got started, but it was just late. We didn't have 
10 time. We were working on it up through yesterday. 
11 And I apologize to the committee and to counsel and committee staff for any 
12 inconvenience that the late delivery of this position may have caused. But I'm doing the 
13 best I can. It's just me. It's just me trying to help Mr. Clark, and I've done everything that 
14 I could to get this ready in the time that I had available, and that went up almost to the 
15 last minute. 
16 -! Other members? Ms. Cheney, anything from you? 
17 Ms. Cheney. Thank you very much,■, yes. I'd like to ask the witness when he 
18 first met Congressman Scott Perry? 
19 Mr. MacDougald. I will assert the privilege objection to that question, 
20 respectfu lly, Congressman Cheney. 
21 Ms. Cheney. And what's the basis for the privilege assertion about your meeting a 
22 Member of Congress? 
23 Mr. MacDougald. The privilege objection is set forth in the letter, Congressman. 
24 It's a detailed legal question, and the parameters of the privileges that attend aides and 
25 advisers to the President extends in many directions. We understand that's disputed by  90 
30 
the committee, and it's a particular application. But pending the resolution of the Trump 
v. Thompson case, we're not willing to answer any questions of that nature until we know 
exactly where the line is. 
Ms. Cheney. And I'd like to also know when, Mr. Clark, you became engaged in 
the debates about the Georgia election procedure? 
Mr. MacDougald. Same objection. 
Ms. Cheney. I'm sorry. Could you please state that for the record? 
Mr. MacDougald. Same objection, Congressman u Representative. I called you a 
Congressman a minute ago. I apologize. 
10 Ms. Cheney. So what objection is that? You're claiming executive privilege with 
11 respect to your knowledge about Georgia election procedures? 
12 Mr. MacOougald. You're talking about me or Mr. Clark? 
13 Ms. Cheney. I'm talking about Mr. Clark, your client. 
14 Mr. MacDougald. We assert privileges in the letter that cover that, 
15 Representative. 
16 Ms. Cheney. Did you have any interaction with any other Members of Congress? 
17 Mr. MacDougald. Same objection, respectfully. 
18 Ms. Cheney. And in terms of your assertions about Dominion voting machines and 
19 smart thermostats, could you explain where you got that information? 
20 Mr. MacDougald. Same objection, respectfully. 
21 Ms. Cheney. So I just want to be clear that I want the record to show that 
22 Mr. Clark is refusing to answer any questions, including those questions that have nothing 
23 to do with any of his interaction with the President, questions that couldn't conceivably 
24 be covered by any assertion of executive privilege. 
25 And, with that, I'll yield back, •.  91 
-! Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Aguilar, Ms. Luria, Ms. Lofgren? 
Ms. Lofgren. I'm fine. 
_ , No? Okay. 31 
Just a couple of things. The subpoena also today was to produce documents as 
well as deposition testimony. Are there any documents --and this may be covered in the 
letter, but, again, haven't had a chance to read it --that you have that are responsive to 
produce to the select committee? 
Mr. MacDougald. We are asserting the objection as to all the document requests, 
and noting in the letter that there is very substantial overlap between the letters --the 
10 documents requested from the Archives --
11 _ ,Okay. 
12 Mr. MacOougald. --and the documents requested from Mr. Clark. 
13 _ , Uh-huh. 
14 Mr. MacDougald. And, consequent ly, we do not have any responsive documents 
15 for you today. 
16 -! Okay. So very substantial overlap suggests that there are some 
17 documents that Mr. Clark possesses that are not included in the Archives. 
18 Mr. MacDougald. Well, that's not right. Whether he has custody or control of the 
19 document is one thing. 
20 _ , Uh-huh. 
21 Mr. MacDougald. Whether it's covered in the request at the Archives is another. 
22 -! We specifically --and I think this was the product of an email that I 
23 sent you --have been interested in his use of a personal email, CivUSDOJ@gmail.com. 
24 Was there any use of that email for subject matters related to the select 
25 committee's inquiry, and have those documents been identified as responsive?  92 
(Witness conferred with counsel.] 
The Witness. I'll answer. 
Mr. MacDougald. He'll answer the question. 32 
The Witness. So my strong recollection, right --and we're talking about events that 
are closing on a year ago --is that that's not an email address that I established. That's an 
email address that the tech contractors who had offices inside DOJ for the Civil Division 
established, and that that was used for purposes of, you know --so, if I would do an 
8 argument --and I did several arguments, including in those months --I wouldn't tend to do 
it from my desk. I would tend to do it either from a side desk that I had, or from the 
10 conference room. 
11 And so I would have the tech person set up a loaner laptop, and then I would email 
12 him the Zoom link or whatever, you know, the instrumentality was. And then I think --so 
13 that --1 think he would open that account on the loaner laptop, and then, you know, 
14 connect to the court link for the argument. So I think that's what that account is for. 
15 I did make an effort to see if, you know --1 have senses of kind of like what 
16 passwords might be, could I log into that, and I couldn't. And I suspect, again, based on my 
17 best recollection as I sit here, that the reason why I couldn't log in is I didn't create the 
18 account, so I don't know what the password is. 
19 -! Did you use a gmail account, a personal email account, to conduct any 
20 official business during your time at the Department? 
21 The Witness. I think that, on that, we're going to stand on the letter. 
22 -! How about personal cell phone? Were there communications, text 
23 messages that you might possess responsive to the subpoena on a personal device? 
24 The Witness. Same as the last --
25 Mr. MacDougald. Same objection.  93 
-! So, to be clear, no documents have been produced, and the letter 
indicates that, to the extent that documents in your possession are responsive, they're 
being withheld on the same assertion of executive privilege? 33 
Mr. MacDougald. Correct. And the other privileges identified in the letter. There 
are other privileges identified in the letter, but the executive privilege is the front and 
center. -! Okay. What are they? I'm sorry. Again --
Mr. MacDougald. Well, there is a .. we enumerate, and I believe these are all 
subsidiary to the executive --
10 -! That's my question. Are they all within the executive --
11 The Witness. No. 
12 Mr. MacOougald. Well, no. That's a subtle legal point. 
13 The Witness. Yeah. I would say no. I think that you should look at the 
14 enumeration, and we stand on that. 
15 Mr. MacDougald. And then we reserve any other objections or rights that he may 
16 have under the Constitution or otherwise. 
17 _ , All right. So--
18 Mr. Schiff. If I could just --
19 - !Yes. 
20 Mr. Schiff. --follow up on that question. 
21 What privilege are you asserting would apply to enable you to refuse to answer a 
22 question about whether you used personal electronic devices in the course of your 
23 government business? 
24 Mr. MacDougald. We're asserting privileges set forth in the letter, Congressman. 
25 Mr. Schiff. And what privilege in particular, because you refer to a number of  94 
34 
privileges? So, for this specific question --that is, whether Mr. Clark used personal devices 
to communicate government business --which specific privilege enables Mr. Clark to 
refuse to answer that question? 
Mr. MacDougald. Given the lack of specificity of the question, we can do no more 
than allude to the privileges that are asserted in the letter, which are the full panoply of 
executive, Federal law enforcement, and so on, privileges that are in the letter, and plus 
the reservation that we've made. So, you know, I --again, with respect, Congressman, we 
8 do not want to engage in a debate or a law school set of hypotheticals about this. 
Mr. Schiff. Well, counsel, you said my question wasn't very specific. Let me try to 
10 make it very, very specific. 
11 Mr. Clark, did you use personal electronic devices to conduct government business 
12 while you were at the Department of Justice? Yes or no? 
13 The Witness. This has been asked and answered, Representative. 
14 Mr. Schiff. I don't have an answer, so would you please answer the question for 
15 me? 
16 Mr. MacDougald. We would object based on privileges set forth in the letter, 
17 Congressman. 
18 Mr. Schiff. And, counsel, which specific privilege entitles this witness to refuse to 
19 answer a question about whether he used personal devices --I'm not asking about the 
20 content, not asking about communications with the President, but merely the simple fact 
21 of whether he used personal electronic devices to conduct government business. What 
22 specific privilege are you asserting that gives him the right to refuse to answer that 
23 question? 
24 Mr. MacDougald. We rest on the privileges asserted in the letter, Congressman. 
25 We object.  95 
Mr. Schiff. Let the record reflect that counsel has cited no particular privilege to 
refuse to answer that question. 35 -! So, Mr. MacDougald, I'm just looking at the letter, again, not having a 
4 chance yet to read it carefully. And, on page 2, it says, the general category of executive 
privilege, the specific categories of presidential communications, law enforcement, and 
deliberative process privileges, as well as attorney-client privilege, and the work product 
doctrine, all harmonize on this point. Is that the universe of privileges that that sentence 
8 that I just read from your letter that Mr. Clark is asserting today? 
Mr. MacDougald. Well, the --you should read the entire letter 
10 -! I appreciate that, but I'm --again, not having had a chance to do that, I 
11 just want to make sure it's clear on the record. 
12 Mr. MacDougald. Well, we think the letter is clear, and the letter is on the record. 
13 - ! At the time of these events, Mr. Clark was an employee of the 
14 Department of Justice, right, and his client was the people of the United States, not 
15 President Trump or anyone else. So help me understand how any attorney-client privilege 
16 could possibly be implicated when a Department of Justice official, a member of the 
17 executive branch, in the course of his professional responsibilities, is engaged in talking to 
18 his superiors or anyone else within the executive branch? 
19 Mr. MacDougald. - • I will say maybe for the fifth or sixth time, we're not 
20 going to engage in legal argument on these points in the deposition. If you want to engage 
21 in legal argument in letters or court filings, we're happy to do that, but we're not going to 
22 do it in this deposition, 
23 - !Yeah. 
24 Mr. MacDougald. And so I think we have, you know, reached an impasse and, 
25 consequently, we -- 96 
36 
The Witness. I --
Mr. Raskin. I have two follow-up --
The Witness. I would say that we've not reached an impasse, and there have been 
4 repeated attempts to characterize the position as absolutist. It's not. We're inviting a 
dialogue in the letter. But, for today, I think that we're done. 
Mr. MacDougald. We're done. 
The Witness. Yeah. 
Mr. MacDougald. We're done for the day. 
- ~ Mr. Raskin, go ahead. 
10 Mr. Raskin. Well, I just want to follow up on your question about the 
11 attorney-client privilege. 
12 Who is the attorney, and who is the client that are covered by the attorney-client 
13 privilege being invoked in the letter? 
14 Mr. MacDougald. It's asked and answered. The privilege is set forth in the letter. 
15 Mr. Raskin. Well, forgive me, because I'm not in the room right now. The letter 
16 arrived late, thank you for your apology about that, but one way to make that apology 
17 meaningful might be to restate the point of your own letter. Who is the attorney, and who 
18 is the client in the attorney-client privilege being asserted in your letter? 
19 Mr. MacDougald. We're happy to engage in that dialogue in correspondence with 
20 committee counsel, but we're not going to do it in the deposition, Congressman. 
21 Mr. Raskin. Wow. Okay. 
22 I yield back to you,■ . Thanks. 
23 ■■■■ Okay. Well, I can tell you, Mr. MacDougald, that we're not going to 
24 conclude the deposition. I think what we'd like to do is take a recess, look again at your 
25 letter temporarily and reconvene, maybe in an hour or so. I understand the position, but,  97 
37 
again, we have been given a letter with very substantial legal arguments that we just need 
a minute --more than a minute --
Mr. MacDougald. I think you need more than a minute. I mean -­
Yeah. 
Mr. MacDougald. --to be fair to the witness, it will --you need to let us go, and 
then you all study it and figure out what you want to say about it, and then we'll respond. 
Yeah. We--
- Respectfully, that's not the way it works. The witness was subpoenaed 
to be here today. Whether it's an inconvenience for him to wait an hour or so while the 
10 committee and the staff discuss this, he doesn't have any right to avoid being 
11 inconvenienced by a brief delay like that. 
12 The Witness. So I think the response on that is I see no indication, from the fact 
13 that the same questions are being asked over and over again, that anything is going to 
14 change as a result of that. So, you know, we --we're going to depart at this point. We 
15 have the dialogue. We want it to be open. You can come back to us. 
16 And we recognize that the letter will require your study, but, you know, you've also 
17 placed me in a position where you did not give the full extension that was requested in 
18 light of personal circumstances and in light of, you know, the situation that's --I have to 
19 deal with in terms of managing life generally, and so, I think, at this point, we would like to 
20 conclude things, and that's our position. 
21 Again, that's not a closed door. It's an open door to dialogue. 
22 ■■■■ Mr. Clark, with all due respect, the door has been open since July 
23 when the Department of Justice wrote you a letter. I first personally reached out to your 
24 counsel in August. The indication was that perhaps you would come in for a voluntary 
25 interview. And, when that ultimately was not something to which you agreed, the  98 
38 
committee issued you a subpoena with a legal obligation. 
You changed counsel, and we gave your new counsel a brief indulgence because he 
had just been retained. And, as a matter of professional courtesy to Mr. MacDougald, we 
4 gave you an extra week. 
But, with all due respect, we have been willing to talk with you, work with you, 
wanted to do this voluntarily since this summer. So this is not a last-minute attempt to 
force you without ample notice of our interest to answer questions on the record. Our 
8 efforts in good faith to engage with you extend 4 months. 
The Witness. So, as the letter indicates, I had been reviewing various things, 
10 studying legal doctrines, conferring with counsel, so we have similarly proceeded in good 
11 faith, and we continue to want to proceed in good faith. 
12 But, for today, you know, sitting here to have the same questions be asked and for 
13 attempts to, you know, respectfully, to be made to mischaracterize our position, that's not 
14 something that it seems to be prudent to continue to do. 
15 ■■■■ The Rules of the House provide that the chair will rule on objections or 
16 assertions of privilege. The chair has not yet had an opportunity to rule. Part of the reason 
17 for a brief recess and discussion with the chairman is to get--again, this is all part of 
18 completing our record such that the committee can consider other options. 
19 So we can stand in recess subject to the call of the chair. We're not concluding the 
20 deposition. But the Rules of the House provide a recess subject to the call of the chair as 
21 we consult with him and seek his potential ruling on your executive privilege assertion. 
22 The Witness. That involves procedures that you will decide how to invoke, and, you 
23 know --but, in terms of our presence, though, we're going to depart. We've made our 
24 position clear, and we've made our willingness to engage in a dialogue from this point 
25 forward clear, and I think that's where we stand.  99 
39 
Before I go --yeah, go ahead, Mr. Raskin. 
Mr. Raskin. ■, what I would just say is that what I'm taking from the 
representation is that Mr. Clark's lawyer has declared us at an impasse, and Mr. Clark has 
4 declared that they're going to leave despite the fact that they're being told to stay under 
the rules of the committee. -! That is precisely my interpretation. 
The Witness. Much like --much like our dispute about the notion of absolutism, the 
8 notion that we're at an impasse is also a mischaracterization. I've repeatedly said and the 
letter says that the dialogue remains open. 
10 Mr. Schiff. And, counsel, I just want to add to the record that we were presented 
11 with this letter right --
12 _ , At 10 o'clock. 
13 Mr. Schiff. --at 10 o'clock this morning. Counsel apologized for the late delivery of 
14 this letter, yet counsel has insisted that a one-hour recess to consider the letter further and 
15 consult with the chairman of the committee is beyond their willingness to accommodate, 
16 and it is their intention to walk out of the deposition notwithstanding the deposition 
17 continues . 
18 I yield back to counsel. 
19 -! Again, my view is precisely the same as Mr. Raskin's and Mr. Schiff's. 
20 Disappointing, but we will consider you to have left the deposition that is subject to recall 
21 by the chair. 
22 Mr. MacDougald. Okay. 
23 [Mr. Clark and Mr. MacDougald left the deposition at 11:29 a.m.] 
24 -! Okay. We're still on the record, Ms. Lofgren. I just want to make sure 
25 that there are things that are entered for the record, right.  100 
Exhibit 1 is the letter to Mr. Clark that was sent by the Department of Justice on 
July 26th, 2021, which I'd ask that we mark and be part of the record as exhibit 1. 
I believe exhibit 2 will be the letter that Mr. MacDougald delivered to the select 
4 committee today. 
I don't think we need the subpoena to be an exhibit. That's already part of the 
committee's record. -! We're okay because he showed up. 40 
-! He did. So those two exhibits and the DOJ letter and his letter to us 
will be formally part of the record of the deposition. 
10 [Clark Exhibit No. 1 
11 Was marked for identification.] 
12 [Clark Exhibit No. 2 
13 Was marked for identification.] 
14 -! And, before we go off the record, is there any other representations 
15 here, Mr. Schiff? 
16 Mr. Schiff. I would just like to include in the record a copy of the Bloomberg 
17 article that counsel for Mr. Clark references in which, per counsel's letter, Mr. Clark was 
18 disappointed it didn't include his discussion of January 6th, the interview that was 
19 published. 
20 He summarizes that conversation with the reporter, but was unwilling today to 
21 discuss even what he told the reporter during that interview, and failed to identify any 
22 privilege that would cover, even conceivably, an interview that Mr. Clark gave with the 
23 press about January 6. 
24 And I would like that to be included in the record. 
25 [Clark Exhibit No. 3  101 
Was marked for identification.] 
-~ I appreciate that. 
What I would propose to do quickly is to go through the exercise that he refused 41 
4 to indulge and just put on the record the areas that I intended to develop with him, just, 
again, so that, for consideration by a court or by DOJ, at least the subject matters that we 
intended to develop are reflected in an official proceeding. 
-~ And I just want to make sure that the record reflected when the 
8 witness left. It did. 
-~ Okay. So --and this won't take 5 hours, as Mr. Clark suggested, but I 
10 intended to develop with him a series of questions about documents, what he maintains, 
11 his use of personal devices or emails, to get a little bit more information about categories 
12 of responsive information that he maintains, whether or not he was withholding any of 
13 them on a privilege basis. He has not produced any documents or a privilege log to the 
14 committee. 
15 I then intended to develop very simple things about his background, his 
16 professional background, his educational background, his current employment. 
17 I would have proceeded then to questions about the institutional role of the 
18 Department of Justice in matters of election integrity. There was a November 9th memo 
19 from Attorney General Barr to the Department that authorized U.S. Attorneys' offices to 
20 investigate credible allegations of voter fraud. I wanted to ask him about the Civil 
21 Division or the Environment of Natural Resources Division having any role in voter fraud 
22 investigations. 
23 I wanted to ask him about communications he had with President Trump, from his 
24 initial introduction to President Trump, which we think occurred sometime in December 
25 of 2020, the role of Congressman Perry or Mark Meadows in facilitating that introduction,  102 
what they discussed, whether it was about the election or otherwise; who else might 
have participated in the communication with President Trump, and the specific 
representations of that discussion. 42 
We wanted to talk to him about the White House contacts policy and the fact that 
his communications with the President violated that White House policy, and the fact that 
he didn't notify Attorney General Rosen or Deputy Attorney General Donaghue of those 
communications. 
We wanted to talk about the reaction by the Department of Justice leadership to 
their discovery of that meeting, any representations he made to them. 
10 We then wanted to talk specifically about efforts that he took, proposed that the 
11 Department take with respect to election fraud. We wanted to ask him, for instance, 
12 about an ODNI briefing that he sought about alleged interference with Dominion voting 
13 machines by the Chinese Government, and a draft letter to Georgia officials that he put 
14 forth that asked the Department, or was the Department asking Georgia legislative 
15 officials to convene a special session and consider the appointment of an alternate slate 
16 of electors. We intended to go through specific representations in that draft letter and 
17 ask for their basis. 
18 I also wanted to ask him about metadata in that draft letter that indicates some 
19 involvement with the White House Communications Agency and the drafting or 
20 preparation of that letter. 
21 I also wanted to ask him about the response to that proposal from Mr. Rosen and 
22 Mr. Clark, which was very strongly negative, Mr. Donaghue's indication that it was 
23 factually inaccurate because the Department was not investigating serious allegations of 
24 fraud, and institutionally, it would be inappropriate for the Department to suggest to a 
25 State that it convene its legislature in a special session, get his reaction to Mr. Donaghue's  103 
43 
criticism of those two proposals. 
I wanted to ask him about a December 28th meeting --subsequent meeting with 
Rosen and Donaghue about additional conversations with the White House about the 
4 Georgia draft letter or other possible steps to take --that the Department would take to 
intervene in the counting of the votes. 
I wanted to ask him specifically about whether he had any involvement in the 
appointment of a special counsel, the possibility of holding a press conference to 
8 announce the Department's involvement, or the Department's joining a Supreme Court 
case as a potential plaintiff despite other professionals in the Department indicating that 
10 the Department had no standing. 
11 We ultimately wanted to ask him about efforts by the President to install him as 
12 Acting Attorney General, the basis for that possibility, his discussions with the President 
13 about actions he might take if he were appointed as Acting Attorney General. There was 
14 a --wanted to ask him ultimately about a meeting in the Oval Office with the President 
15 and others at which his possible appointment as Acting Attorney General was discussed 
16 and when the President ultimately decided not to make a change and appoint Mr. Clark 
17 as the Acting Attorney General. 
18 Finally, we wanted to ask him a series of questions about things beyond his 
19 interactions with the President. For instance, his potential involvement in meetings in 
20 advance of January 6th with campaign officials, with lawyers who purported to represent 
21 the former President, who had come up with theories as to the Vice President's authority 
22 to reject slates of electors. 
23 We wanted to ask him about the Willard War Room and communications with 
24 Steve Bannon, Rudy Giuliani, Bernie Kerik, John Eastman, and others. We wanted to ask 
25 him about what he did and what he was aware of on January 6th itself. We wanted to ask  104 
44 
him about further interactions at any time he had with the Chief of Staff Mark Meadows, 
including Mr. Meadows' travel to Georgia, and interaction with Georgia State officials. 
We wanted to ask Mr. Clark about any campaign activities or discussions with 
4 representatives of the Trump campaign, Bill Stepien, and Jason Miller. 
We wanted to get his substantive view on the Eastman memos. The Eastman 
memos put forward the theory that the Vice President need not certify the slates of 
electors that were put forth and were pending his review on January the 6th. 
We wanted to ask him about any discussions he had with various State officials in 
Georgia, in Pennsylvania, or elsewhere. 
10 We wanted to ask him about interaction with a man named John Lott, who 
11 worked at the Department of Justice and wrote a memo that involved some allegations of 
12 voter fraud. 
13 And we wanted to ask him about the Gohmert v. Pence litigation, the one matter 
14 in which the Department did intervene, but simply to indicate that there was no standing 
15 by the plaintiff, Congressman Gohmert, to bring that litigation. Mr. Clark actually signed 
16 the pleading indicating that the Department --the Department's view that Mr. Gohmert 
17 had no standing, and the case should be dismissed. 
18 Let me stop and see if any of my colleagues have additional subject matters that 
19 they wanted to flag so that the record reflects the universe of things that we wanted to 
20 develop with Mr. Clark. _ , anything? 
21 - !Nope. 
22 _ ,No. 
23 - ! The only caveat I'd have to all of that was that that is what we 
24 intended to ask him as of now, but that this is an ongoing investigation. We continue to 
25 develop new facts and seek documents that we haven't yet received, and that that may  105 
45 
not ultimately be the final universe of subject matters for Mr. Clark. But that is what we 
intended to ask him about today. -! And, of course, any other questions that would come up as a result of 
4 things that Mr. Clark told us in the deposition. 
_,Yeah. 
For the record --I suppose it's clear, but to make it crystal clear, I proposed going 
through that list on the record with Mr. Clark so that he and his lawyer would have a 
8 sense of the subject matters and would articulate in response to each category the basis 
for his assertion of executive privilege. He refused to indulge, walked out of the 
10 deposition before we had a chance to ask those questions. 
11 So I'm now simply making this for the record, but not for Mr. Clark, because he 
12 has left the deposition. 
13 All right. Anything else that anyone has before we go off the record? -· 
14 anything? 
15 Mr. Schiff, any other statements that we want to make sure are reflected in the 
16 official record? 
17 Mr. Schiff. Well, I know our committee wanted to ask, among other questions, 
18 whether he had destroyed or erased any cell phone or other digital device during the 
19 course of 2021. But, as he would not even answer questions as to whether he used 
20 personal devices for the conduct of government business, he did not allow us the 
21 opportunity to ask that line of questioning either. 
22 I viewed his refusal as categorical, without even an assertion of privilege or a 
23 claimed assertion of privilege, but a constant reference to a letter, a letter that, in and of 
24 itself, was not from the former President directing him not to testify. There has been no 
25 legal action by the former President to intervene in this proceeding.  106 
46 
Given that his colleagues in the Justice Department in higher positions of authority 
have testified and his refusal even to answer questions about his statements about 
January 6th made to the press, those refusals at least strike this member of the 
4 committee as not in good faith, and I yield back. 
-~ Yeah. Any other Members? Yes? Mrs. Luria. 
Mrs. Luria. I just wanted to add for the record that, you know, although he 
referred to the letter numerous times and refused to answer the vast majority of 
8 questions, I felt that he negated his claim to privilege by actually•· his universal claim to 
privilege for every question by actually answering a select question about the use of the 
10 gmail account. 
11 So, although he claimed overall privilege, he did negate that on his own by 
12 answering a single question, and so that --I just wanted to place that that was my 
13 impression on the record. 
14 -! Uh-huh. All right. Any other members of the committee? Yeah. 
15 And I'll say that this record will remain open and that we are just going to --the 
16 deposition will stand in recess subject to the call of the chair, so the record will not be 
17 closed, but does anyone else have anything now to add? No? 
18 I think I made my points about the state of engagement with Mr. Clark. The select 
19 committee reached out to him through counsel back in August. We repeatedly sought his 
20 voluntary cooperation, and it wasn't until he indicated he would not agree to a date for a 
21 voluntary cooperation that we moved to issue him a subpoena 
22 He changed counsel very late, only about a week ago. Mr. MacDougald was 
23 retained a week ago, but he had previous counsel with whom we were very directly 
24 engaged on multiple occasions. 
25 All right. Then I think we can go off the record at this point with the caveat that  107 
47 
the deposition will stand in recess subject to the call of the chair. 
[Whereupon, at 11:43 a.m., the deposition was recessed, subject to the call of the 
chair.]  108 
48 
[4:15 p.m.] 
Chairman Thompson. So we will reconvene the deposition of Jeffrey Bossert 
4 Clark. 
The committee will come to order. 
I understand that_, the Select Committee's Chief Investigative Counsel, 
can update the committee on additional communications with Mr. Clark's attorney. 
8 And I now recognize-. 
-~ Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
10 Upon the postponement or the recess of --not postponement --the recess of the 
11 deposition this morning, I immediately reached out to Harry MacDougald, who's counsel 
12 to Mr. Clark. Called him. His cell phone, voice mail was full. Sent him a text message, 
13 asking him to call me. And then sent an email, essentially letting him know we were 
14 going to reconvene at 4:00 o'clock for the purpose of you, Mr. Chairman, considering and 
15 ruling upon hls objection, and received an email response from Mr. MacDougald at 3:25 
16 p.m., indicating that he was already en route back to his office in Atlanta. 
17 He said it will not be possible for us to return at 4:00. He could not allow Mr. Clark 
18 to appear without counsel. And then he sets forth some specific objections to the 
19 process, the rules of the House which have the chairman ruling on objections. 
20 And I will make that email exchange part of the record as an exhibit to the 
21 deposition. 
22 Chairman Thompson. Thank you very much. 
23 Earlier today, Mr. Clark's attorney, Harry MacOougald, delivered to the 
24 Select Committee a letter asserting blanket privileges and objecting to Mr. Clark's further 
25 participation in the subpoenaed deposition.  109 
Pursuant to House Deposition Authority Regulation 7, a witness may refuse to 
answer questions only to preserve a privilege. That same authority empowers the chair 
to rule on any objection. 
Do we want to recognize other members? If so, we could open the floor for 
discussion. I know Mr. Raskin, who's in a CPC meeting, had indicated he wanted to say 
something or potentially. 
Does any other member wish to be heard on the objection? 
Ms. Lofgren. I think it's quite clear that Mr. Clark has failed to adhere to the 
subpoena, the Rules of the House, the precedents in law, in statute, and is completely 
10 acting in a lawless way. 49 
11 Chairman Thompson. Well, I thank the gentlelady. And the chair, at this point, is 
12 prepared to rule on the objection. 
13 As I stated in a letter I sent to Mr. Clark's attorney this afternoon, Mr. Clark does 
14 not enjoy categorical claims of privilege across every element of the Select Committee 
15 investigation as authorized by House Resolution 503. 
16 Accordingly, I overrule the objections asserted by Mr. Clark and direct the witness 
17 to answer the questions posed by members and committee counsel, asserting relevant 
18 specific privileges on a question-by-question basis. 
19 Since the witness has decided not to reappear pursuant to notice, my ruling will 
20 be communicated to Mr. Clark in writing. The chair will allow Mr. Clark, until Tuesday, to 
21 cooperate with my direction to answer the Select Committee's questions in light of this 
22 ruling. 
23 Accordingly, the deposition stands in recess subject to the call of the chair. We 
24 will close that part of the deposition. And we will now, for the benefit of the 
25 Select Committee, just talk about the committee's business, strategy, and what other  110 
50 
items we might want to discuss. 
- ~ Mr. Chairman, thank you. 
We wanted to go off the record. We want to make sure we can go off the record 
4 now. 
We will let the court reporter go and thank her very much for her patience today. 
So we are off the record as of now. 
(Whereupon, at 4:21 p.m., the committee was recessed, subject to the call of the 
8 chair.]  111 
EXHIBIT 3  112 
kom.: 
To: 
°'' S..l>jo<t 
Datt!:: 
Amehm.ents: 
Harry, -ttiHEYWCPOIIQald 
l!E: li!ifftey Oiwk 
wedt'le.dity , NOm'l'lber J, 2021 2:2-.:00 PM 
Pmemeac PnXliak>o bsuak>oS oor ~ 
des»SD>ill'e'.!eS-«lf >e!!tev aa,t ,o n oor 
In anticipation of Mr. Clark's deposition on Friday, I wanted to provide some information about the 
subpoena and the rules of the House of Representatives that govern the proceeding. rm anachin,g a 
copy of the resolution authorizing depositions and the rules that apply, the instructions for 
document production, and the subpoena issued to Mr. Clark on October 13. I assume you have 
some or all of these material, but I wanted to ensure you have this information before Friday. 
Please let me know if it woo Id be useful to schedule a call to discuss any of this or logistics for 
Friday. rm available between now and then -just let me know what works for you. 
Looking forward to seeing you soon,  113 
EXHIBIT 4  114 
C,UDWELL. CAR.LSON, 
ELLIOTT.l< D~LOACH . LLP 
November 5, 2021 
Hon. Bennie G. Thompson, Chairman 
January 6th Select Committee 
U.S. House of Representatives 
Longworth House Office Building 
WashingtorL DC 20515 
Dear Representative Thompson: -
I have been retained to represent Jeffrey Clark in the investigati ve matters pending 
before your Committee.1 
Despite disparaging and misleading media narratives, Mr. Clark is not a politician 
and has never sought notoriety or press attention beyond what was necessary to 
discharge his duties. Indeed, despite serving more thnn four years du.ring the Bush 
Administration's Justice Department from 2001-2005 and more than two years during the 
Tn,mp Administmtlon's Justice Department from 2018-2021, he was never once during 
those six-plus years of service asked to come before a congressionnl committee for 
1 This letter focuses on the issues surrounding the exa.'1.ltive privilege, though there arc ndditional legal 
objections, including those of a structural constitutional nat-urc, that we will interpose h1 good falth as well 
to Mr. Clark testifying, should doing so become necessary . We nloo reserve all of Mr. Oark's individuaJ 
riehts under the Bill of Rights, though invocotion of those rights is also not neCX?ssruy at this time, as 
cxt.'CUtive privilege and related privileges should be a sufficient threshold ground not to testify in response 
to the subpoena as it is currently framed.  115 
CALDWE LL, CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH. LI.P 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 5, 2021 
Page2 
oversight purposes , even though he litigated and supervised highly controversial cases. 2 
He had a winning record, recovered billions of dollars for the fisc, successfully defended 
numerou s agency rulemakings of extreme complexity, and personally briefed and 
argued many cases-exemplary service. He was confirmed in October 2018 with 
bipartisan support in the Senate-just one part of his distinguished 25-year legal career. 
Now, after his most recent, 26-month-plus tenure in government ending in 
January 2021, he wants nothing more than to return to ordinary life and law practice, 
without being subjected to selective anonymous leaks and press attacks. Yet he finds 
himself involw1tarily caught up in a novel conflict that includes both significant inter­
branch3 and cross-presidentia14 features to which we must provide a response. 
The main purpose of this letter is this: Because former President Trump was 
properly entitled, while he held office, to tl1e confidential advice of lawyers like Mr. Clark, 
Mr. Clark is subject to a sacred trust-one that is particularly vital to the constitutional 
separation of powers. As a result, any attempts-w hether by the House or by the current 
President-to invade that sphere of confidentiality must be resisted. Nothing less wilJ 
comport with both Mr. Clark's obligations to former President Trump and· with Mr. 
Clark's etllical obligations as an attorney. The general category of executive privilege, 
the specific categories of the presidential communications, Jaw enforcement and 
deliberative process privileges,s as well as attorney-client privilege and the work product 
doctrine, all ha.rmonize on this point. Most importantly, core matters of constitutional 
principle hang in fhe balance. 
2 For instance, Mr. Clark was integral to defending former President Trump's decision to withdraw from 
the Paris Climate Agreemen t, to resisting impropt:!r juJicial interference wHh the Census, to crafting and 
then personally defending, in litigation, the first major reform in four decades of the National 
Envirorunentnl Policy Act's regulations, and to shepherding through the judicial process various agency 
actions protecting the southern border with Mexico against incursions. This work was unpopular in some 
political quarters but at aU times was consistent with Jaw and with his dient agencies' policy decisions. 
3 A single House of Congress vs. former President Trump. 
4 President Biden vs. former President Trump, i.e., the current President vs. the immediately past President. 
5 Indeed, Mr. Clark's work was integral to the United States' win in the Supreme Court's most recent 
deliberative process case, United States Fish & Wildlife Serv. v. Sierra Club, Inc., 141 S. Ct. 777 (2021).  116 
CALOWELL. CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH. Li.P 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 5, 2021 
Page3 
Mr. Clark's position as a legal advisor to the President late in 2020 and early 2021 was 
particularly sensitive because he was a Senate-confirmed Justice Department leader with 
significant high-profile litigation and govemment a] experience, making it natural for a 
President to seek out and consult his views.6 We trust that members of Congress of all 
stripes would agree that it is indisputab le that American Presidents need to be able to 
consult, as they see fit, with their Senate-confirmed appointees. The principle goes both 
ways. Whomever succeeds President Biden, for instance, should not be able to expose to 
public scrutiny advice provided to President Biden by his advisors. Establishing 
precedent to the contrary would deeply chill the vigorous Executive Branch and energetic 
President the Founders envisioned. See Federalist Paper No. 70 (Hamilton) (Mar. 18, 
1788) ("Energy in the executive is a leading character in the definition of good 
government"), available al https-Utinym;l.com/3ep7fhz9. Without that energy and ability 
to be candid, presidential advisors would be reduced to bland, tasteless creatures, and 
the prospect of innovative advice would be stifled. 
For these reasons, as ampHfied below, and with due respect to the Committee, Mr. 
Clark has mme with me today, to present this letter of objection. Mr. Clark will, of course, 
abide by a future judicial decision(s) appropriately governing all underlying disputes 
with finality, but for now he must decline to testify as a threshold matter because the 
President's confidences are not his to waive. 
1, Since August 2, 2021, when a pivotal letter was sent on behalf of former 
President Tmmp to Mr. Clark (Attachment), there have been several cardinal 
developments: 
(1) On September 23, 2021, this Committee subpoenaed senior White House officials 
Mark Meadows and Daniel Scavino, senior Pentagon official Kashyap Patel, and 
6 Beginning in November 2018, Mr. Oark headed one of the Justice Department's seven litigating Divisions 
(the approximate ly 112 year-old Environment & Naturnl Resources Division, which has existed for most of 
the 151 years of the Justice Department's history). And later, in light of his excellent service in the 
Environment Division during the fa.st Administrat ion, Mr. Clnrk wus also tapped by the Attorney GeneraJ 
in the Fall or 2020 to run a second of those seven litigating Divisions as the Acting Assistant Attorney 
Genera] for the Civil Division.  117 
CALOWELL . CARLSON, 
ELLIOT T & Of.LOACH. L.I.P 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 5, 2021 
Page4 
Stephen Bannon, making especially clear to Mr. Oark that executive privilege had 
been invoked in light of the violation of a condition set forth in the August 2, 2021, 
letter from former President Trump's counsel, as explained in more detail below; 
(2) On or about October 7, 2021, former President Trump invoked executive privilege 
and h1stn1cted these four presidential advisors not to comply with the Committee's 
requests;7 
(3) Additionally, on September 29, 2021, the Committee had subpoenaed 11 other 
individuals to appear for questioning; and, most importantly, 
(4) The former President took the critical step of bringh1g suit against the Committee , 
among others, in Trump v. Thompson, Civ. A. No. 21-2769 (D.D.C. Oct. 18, 2021). In this 
case, President Trump asserts executive privilege and is objecting to the Committee's 
request to the Archivist of the United States to produce records of his administration. 
The August 2 letter from your former colleague, Georgia Congressman Douglas A. 
Collins, stated to Mr. Clark that "President Trump continues to assert that the non-public 
infomiation the Committees seek is and should be protected from disclosure by the 
executive privilege," and that this "executive privilege applicable to communications 
with President Trump belongs to the Office of the Presidency, not to any individual 
President, and President Biden has no power to unilaterally waive it." Attachment at 1. 
The Collins letter also quoted the Supreme Court's recognition that "the privilege 
is not for the benefit of the President as an h1dividual, but for the benefit of the Republic." 
Id. (quoting Nixon v. Administrator of Gen. Servs., 433 U.S. 425,449 (1977)). That decision 
provides that the purpose of the privilege is to "give his advisers some assurance of 
confidentiality," so that the "President [can] expect to receive the full and frank 
submission of facts and opinions upon whim effective discl1arge of his duties depends." 
ld. Additionally, the August 2 letter noted that an earLier July 26, 2021 letter to Mr. Oark 
7 See Jacquelin e Alemany, et af., Trump Lawt;er Tells Former Aides Not lo Cooperate witfl Ja11. 6 Committee, 
w ASH. PosT (Oct. 7, 2021), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/volitics/2021/10/07/tn,m~ 
tells-forrner-<l'idcs-not-cooperate--with.:Jfilt-6-con1m~.  118 
CALDWELL. CARLSON. 
ELLIOTT & DELO!+.Cf-1. 1.,1.r 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 5, 2021 
Pages 
from the current Justice Department had selectively edited a quotation out the Nixon 
decision, leaving off the key sentenc-e that "the privilege survives the individual 
President's tenure." Attachment at 2 (quoting Nixon, 433 U.S. at 449) (emphasis added). 
See also Prof. Saikrishna Prakash, Trump ls Right: Forme,· Presidents Can Assert Executive 
· Privilege, Wash. Post. (Oct. 29, 2021), available at https·Utinyurl.comlykcpz94w . 
I concur with that assessment by tl1e former President and his counsel. Were any 
successor occupant of the office of President able to waive claims of executive privilege 
asserted by his or her predecessor s, the principal purpose of the privilege would be 
defeated, to the detriment of the Executive Branch, to the separation of powers, and to 
the proper functioning of government as envisioned by the Constitution, relevant judicial 
precedent, and long traditions of inter-branch accommodation. This is particularly true 
when, as here, President Biden's purported waivers over recent months may have been 
informed by partisan political purposes. This is suggested by the haste with which Mr. 
Biden prejudged Mr. Bannon's invocation of the privilege on behalf of former President 
Tru.mp. 8 Executive privilege has fundamental importance to and constitutiona1 
significance in the operation of government. Waivers of executive privilege should 
therefore be considered only with a gravity and solemnity commensurate with their 
deployment, and should not be influenced by workaday political grievances 01· by 
grudges lingering from past political controversies, even bitter ones. 
8 See Katherine Fung, Biden's Comments Could Fumble DO/ Prosecution of Steve Bannon: Here's H(TW, 
NEWSWEEK (Oct. 21, 2021) ("referring to those, like Bannon, who have refused to comply with the subpoena 
to testify before the January 6 committee (and] asked if they should face prosecution, Bidcn said, 'I do, 
yes."'); Donald Judd & Rachel Janfaza, Biden Says DO/ Should Prosecute Those Who Defy January 6 Committee 
Subpoenas, CNN (Oct. 16, 2021) (same); see al,;o id. (quoting PrP-Ss Secretary Jen Psaki as arguing, rontmry to 
law, tht1t ultimate decisions would be made by the Justice Department because "[t]hey're an independent 
agency .... "), available at https:/fwww.newsweck com/bidens-comments-rou ld-Iumbk ,..doj-~ 
~annon-heres- how-164142 8. While President Biden later acknowledged he had been wrong to make 
the statement, the damage in the public mind had already been done. See Kaanita Iyer, Bidet1 Sa-ys He Was 
Wrong to Suggesl Those Who Defy Subpoenas from January 6 Commiltee Should Be. Prosecuted, CNN, available at 
http!>:/}ed iHon.cnn com/202J/10/21/politi cs/jun:u+iry-6-ioe-blckn~hal l/index.html (Oct. 22, 2021). For, 
as the Committee is awure, the President is the chief law enforcement officer of the United States and the 
Constitution does not mention the Attorney General by name. The Constitution simply contemplates that 
there will be a "principal Officer in each of the executive Departments." U.S. Const. art. LI, sec. 2. Nor do 
any statutes establish the Department of Justice as an "independent agency."  119 
CALDWELL. CARLSON. 
ELLJOTT & DELOACH. LI.P 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 5, 2021 
Page6 
2. Other former Department of Justice officials who received the Collins letter 
have apparently interpreted its concluding paragraph to mean that the former President 
had waived the privilege on a blanket basis or somehow otherwise greenlighted their 
testimony to Committees looking into assertedly similar issues prior to this Committee 
beginning its work. We disagree with that interpretation . No fair reading of the Collins 
letter can conclude that it waives any privileges as to an official like Mr. Clark, especially 
after the key contingency set out in the letter had been triggered: 
Nonetheless, to avoid further distraction and without in any way otherwise 
waiving tlte executive privilege associated with the matters the executive 
privilege associated with the matters the Committees are purporting to 
investigate, President Trump will agree not to seek judicial intervention to 
prevent your testimony or the testimony of the five other former Department 
officials ... who have already received letters from the Department similar to 
the July 26, 2021 letter you received, so long as the Committees do 1tot seek 
privileged information from a1ty other Trump administration officials or 
advisors. 
Attachment at 2 (emphasis added). The condition in the emphasized language has been 
triggered because the Committee sought privileged information from multiple other 
Trump administration officials or advisors before Mr. Clark was subpoenaed on October 
13,2021. . 
Our position is simple and is dictated by the plain text of the letter. The Collins 
letter does not waive privilege as to Mr. Clark. Even before the contingency triggered by 
your Committee seeking information from other Trump Admirustration officials had 
occurred, at best the Collins letter indicated that former President Trump would agree 
himself not to seek judicial intervention on the pre-contingency state of U1e facts. That is 
not remotely the same as authorizing testimony or waivi.ng executive privilege. All 
portions of the Collins letter prior to the concluding paragraph clearly invoked privilege. 
Nor could Mr. Collins' indicating that the former President would not file suit at an 
earlier time act to relieve Mr. Oark of his ethical obligations. 
And surely, once the Committee issued subpoenas to Messrs. Meadows, Scavino, 
Patel and Bannon on September 23, the assertiOn of executive privilege set forth in all of  120 
CALDWELL. CARLSON . 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH. LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 5, 2021 
Page? 
the other paragraphs of that Jetter applied with special force to Mr. Clark. This is because 
Congress has, in fact, sought privileged information from Messrs. Meadows, Scavino, 
and Patel as they are all, no doubt, "other Tmmp administration officials." In short, even 
former President Trump's statement that he would not go to court in August 2021 was 
expressly conditional, and the Committee's issuance of the Meadows , Scavi.no, and Patel 
subpoenas has caused the failure of that condition. TI1erefore, especially after the 
triggering of the contingency, the letter simply cannot be read as an unconditional waiver 
as to Mr. Clark or the others named in the final paragraph. 
Accordingly, particula rly under the present circumstances, the Collins letter 
expressly informs Mr. Clark that President Trump is asserting and not waiving exee11tive 
privilege wiU1 respect to the Committ ee's pursuit of information from Mr. Clark. 
President Trump's assertion of his privileges with respect to the Committee's subpoena 
to Mr. Clark is confirmed in Trump v. Tlwmpson, et al, U.S.O.C. O.C. 1:21-cv-02769-TSC, 
by footnote 2 of his brief in ·support of his application for a preliminary injunction: 
TI1e Committee also sought testimony and documents from several indivjduals, 
some of whom were serving in the Trump Ad.ministration in January and others 
who were not. To preserve all privileges applicable to him and ti1e Presidency, 
President Trump sent a letter to a number of these individuals, instructing them 
to preserve any and all relevant and applicable privileges, including without 
limitation the presidential communications and deliberative process privileges 
and attorney-clien t privileg e, all to the extent allowed by law. 
Jd., Doc. 5, p. 1, n.2. The Committee of course has actual notice of this contention since it 
is a party to that litigatioIL 
Mr. Clark thus has no choice but to comply with President Trump's assertion of 
executive privi.lege and related privileges. 
3. Since September 7, 2021, staff on ilie Select Committee has been in contact 
with Mr. Clark's former attorney, Robert Driscoll, about U1e possibility of Mr. Clark 
giving a transcribed interview to the Committee regarding communications with and 
advice given to former President Trump during the Jast few months of his 
Administra tion.  121 
CALDWELL, CARLSON. 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH. 1.1.r 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 5, 2021 
Page8 
In good faith and while he was engaging in legal research and keeping apprised 
of related actions by the Committee and other parts of Congress, Mr. Oark had been 
requesting and reviewing documents from the Department of Justice pursuant to 28 
C.F.R. § 16.300. And, if the federal judicial system orders Mr. Oark directly or produces 
final and clearly applicable precedent in (a) related case(s) indicating that Mr. Clark must 
testify, he would resume that process consistent with other legal shictures. But in line 
with our research and study, events subsequent to September 7 have convinced me that 
the only proper course of action for Mr. Clark now is to stand on the privilege position 
articulated to him on August 2 by former President Trump and affirmed in rus October 
19, 2021 filing in Trump v. Tlwmpson. 
Trus is for three reasons: (1) first and foremost because former President Tmmp, 
as noted, took heavy step of invoking the privilege in federal court litigation on October 
18 against the Committee in its official capacity, indicating that the inter-branch 
accommodation process had broken down; (2) because the September 23 subpoenas to 
Messrs. Meadows, Scavino, and Patel unmistakab ly triggered the contingency in the 
Collins letter, seemingly removing the basis for any potential accommodation agreement 
with the Committee premised on it cabining ti1e scope of its inquiry; and (3) because the 
former President acted to jnvoke the privilege as to those advisors and Mr. Bannon. 
4. I am aware that other former top officials in the Department of Justice have 
provided testimony to Congress, despite the former President's assertion of privilege and 
despite the failure of ti1e conditions in ti1e Collins letter. As the privilege was not theirs 
to waive, at least without greater clarity (such as a court order with finality or a 
comprehensive arrangement entered into between former .President Trump and 
Congress, where the latter agreed not to seek "privileged information from any other 
Tmrnp administration officials or advisors11), it is unclear to me how their testimony 
could be consistent with fom1er President Tnunp's assertion of executive privilege. 
Former President Trump holds that privilege, not them. Be that as it may, in the present 
circumstances, the fact that other former officials may have testified, rightly or wrongly 
at the time, does not change Mr. Oark' s obligations in light of the recent positions taken 
by former President Trump in the Collins letter and in Trump v. Tlwmpson. Indeed, D.C. 
Bar Ethics Opinion #288 has advised that, even in response to a congressional subpoena 
(and therefore, by parity of reasoning, in response to a voluntary request as well), a 
'1awyer has a professional responsibility to seek to quash or limit the subpoena on all  122 
CALDWELL, CARLSON. 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH. LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. TI1ompson 
November 5, 2021 
Page9 
available, legitimate grounds to protect confidential doC11ments and client secrets." See 
also American Bar Association's Committee on Ethics and Professional Responsibility, 
Formal Opinion 94--385 (1994). 
ft is improper to put Mr. Oark in a vise between this Com1nittee and its claimed 
enforcement powers on the one hand and his constitutiona l and ethical obligations on the 
other, especially while there is a pending Jawsttit to determine President Trump's 
privilege objections. To apply such pressure to Mr. Clark is to present him with a 
potential Hobson's choice in a manner not countenanced by the long history of inter­
branch accommodation over Congressional requests for information from the Executive 
Branch. The Constitution is the ultimate source of our law and this Committee is bound 
to respect government-wide constitutional boundaries, including respecting the 
prerogatives of the coequal Executive Branch. 
Additionally, the claim made by Senate counsel at the outset of the relevant 
testimonies of at least one of these other Deparhnent of Justice officials, namely, that the 
Collins letter was a 111etter of nonobjection ... on behalf of former President Trump,"9 if it 
were ever correct there (and it is not because nothing in the letter waives privilege or 
states a general principle of non-objection), is obviously incorrect as to Mr. Clark at the 
present time. The Collins letter qttite explicitly (1) asserts that the former President has 
not waived claims of executive privilege; (2) asserts the privilege; and (3) at most, even 
from this Committee's potential perspective, fixes conditions that as to Mr. Clark are no 
longer met. 
In light of the foregoing, 1 have advised my client that, at this time and based on 
these most up-to-date factual developments, he is duty-bound not to provide testimony 
to your Committee covering infonnation protected by the former President's assertion of 
exee11tive privilege. Accordingly, beyond showing up today to present this letter as a 
sign of his respect for a committee of the House of Representatives, albeit one not formed 
in observance of the ordinary process of minority participation, Mr. Oark cannot answer 
deposition questions at this time. No adverse inferences can or should be drawn from 
Mr. Clark accepting my advice. His doing so defends the Republic's interest in the 
9 Transcript, nvailable at https·//www judiciary senate.govJimP/media/doc/Rosen%20Transcript pdf at 6-7 
(Aug. 7, 2021).  123 
CALDWELL, CARL SON. 
Et,l-lOTT & DELOACH. L-1,r 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. TI1ompso n 
November 5, 2021 
Page 10 
separation of powers. As noted, Mr. Oark is not a politician but he is a strong defender 
of the Constitution, stemming from his political beliefs as an unapologetic conservative­
beliefs protected by the First Amendment. 
5. In addition to the foregoing, I must also point out that the vast majority of 
the document requests in the subpoena sent to Mr. Clark are duplicated in the requests 
for documents sent by the Committee to the National Archives presently at issue in the 
Trump v. Thompson litigation. It is entirely proper, therefore, to defer compliance with the 
Committee's subpoena to Mr. Clark until that litigation is 1·esolved. 
Moreover, the documents subpoenaed from Mr. Clark are instead largely in the 
possession of the Department of Justice or the Archives. Mr. Clark le~ his work papers at 
the Department of Justice when he resigned in anticipation of the January 20, 2021 
inauguration of President Biden. Based on prior actions, beginning with those of the 
House Oversight Committee, we also believe that your Committee has access to Mr. 
Clark's government records, making the impositi on on us of 01·ganizational work, such 
as Bates-stamping documents, unduly burdensome. If the Committee could please 
confirm this one way or the other, it may obviate any claim of demonstrably critical need 
for Mr. Clark to re-produce documents tl1e Committee already has, should that become 
necessary at some future point. 
6. Accordingly, I respectfully urge tl1e Committee to recognize that the best 
and most regular course in light of the latest developments would be to pause the request 
for the testimony of Mr. Clark (likely along witl1 the requests for th.e testimony of Messrs. 
Meadows, Scavino, and Patel, who would seem similarly situated) pending resolution of 
the Trump v. Thompson litigation. That will provide important guidance from the Article 
ill branch of government to referee th.is inter-branch dispute, including, among other 
things, the entwined issue of whether the current President can purport to waive the 
former President's executive privilege over the former President's objection. As Justice 
Powell remarked in concurrence in Nixon, f/[t]he difficult constitutional questions lie 
ahead." 433 U.S. at 503. See also id. at 491 (Blackmun, J., concurring) (noting that 
historically some presidential transitions had been "openly hostile," and hoping that the 
statute under consideration there "did not become a model for the disposition of the 
papers of each president who leaves office at a time when his successor or the Congress 
is not·of his political persuasion."). A pause, as we here request, would also show proper  124 
CALDWELL. CARLSON . 
ELLIOTT & DEL01'CH. L.LP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. TI1ompson 
November 5, 2021 
Page 11 
comity both to Executive Branch's interests (considered holistically and not as defined 
myopically to embrace only tl1e views of the current President) and to the Judicial 
Branch's role in resolving cases and controversies. As Nixon indicates, "[tjhe 
confidentiality necessary to this exchange [of advice and confidences between a President 
and an advisor] cannot be measured by the few months or years between the submission 
of the information and the end of the President's ten me; the privilege is not for the benefit 
of the President as an individual , but for the benefit of the Republic." 433 U.S. at 449. 
7. I am also compelled to note the disconnect between the scope and purpose 
of the Committee's authorizing resolution and the information sought from Mr. Clark. 
The Committee's scope revolves around events at the Capitol on January 6, 2021. The 
Committee would not appear to be seeking to question Mr. Clark about January 6, 2021 
and no media reporting has connected rum to those events. Mr. Clark had nothing to do 
with the January 6 protests or the incursion of some into the Capitol. He has informed 
me he worked from home that day to avoid wrestling with potential street closures to get 
to and from his office at Main Justice. Nor did Mr. Clark have any responsibili ties to 
oversee security at the Capitol or have the ability to deploy any Department of Justice 
personne l or resources there. Indeed, Acting Attorney General Rosen testified almost 6 
months ago that a January 3, 2021 Oval Office meeting involving him and Mr. Clark, inter 
alia, did not relate to January 6. See House Oversight and Reform Committee Holds 
Hearing on Jan. 6 Riot at U.S. Capitol, available at 
https://www.youlube.com/watcl1?v=719 UGi8dNng beginning at circa the one-hour, 15-
minute mark (Rep. Connolly) (streamed May 12, 2021).10 That should alone be sufficient 
for Mr. Oark to be excluded from a January 6 inquiry. 
Indeed, just about a week after January 6, Mr. Clark gave an "exit interview" to a 
reporter for Bloomberg Law that condemned the individual s who forcibly went into the 
Capitol and engaged in violence, noting that some of them may have been moved by mob 
psyrnology (Mr. Clark specifically remembers referencing Gustave Le Bon), besmircl1lng 
by mere associatio n the far more numerous peaceful protesters exercising their First 
IO Q. Rep. Connolly: "Did you meet with the President at the White House on January 3rd?" A. Former 
Acting AG Rosen: "[ did." Q. Rep. Cocmolly: "You did, but you decline to tell us what the nature of that 
conversat ion was about, is that correct?" A. Jiormcr Acting AG Rosen: "I can tell you it did not relate to 
the planning and preparations for the events on Janu~ry 6th."  125 
C.ALDWE LL. C,,,.RL.SO'l 
ELL/(."ITT & DtLOAClt. LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. TI10mpson 
November 5, 2021 
Page 12 
Amendment rights. As a clear example of mainstream media bias, however, the report 
later published about that interview omitted Mr. Clark's remarks on January 6, even 
though the reporter had repeatedly sought Mr. Clark's views on the topic during the 
course of the interview. n 
For all of these reasons, the information and testimony sought by the Committee 
as applied to Mr. Clark in particular are outside the scope of the Committee's charter and 
are neither proper subjects of the Committee's subpoena, nor any subsequent attempt to 
enforce the subpoena. 
Finally, I would kindly request a response to the objections set out in this letter, 
which may include a proposal to me by the Committee as to a more limited scope of 
inquiry narrowed to January 6-something that I would be happy to engage on to try to 
reach an agreement. And for the avoidance of all doubt, we reiterate that, during 
continued discussions and at all times, we reserve all other objections as may be 
applicable tmder the circumstances. See supra n.1. 
Respectfully, 
C~/e~~§ LLP f t::t. MacDouga ld 
Enc. 
cc: Jeffrey Bossert Clark 
11 See Ellen Gilmer, Top Official Steps Dow11 from DO f's E11viro11111ent, Civil Divisions, BLOOMBERG LAW Gan. 
14, 2021), availalile at https:/Jnews .bh1mbNg law.rnm/whitc•collar•ancl-criminal·law/top•offici<1l·skpS· 
dpwn•frnm--<lojs•enviro11ment.(iv i!•divi,;;inns?cnntcxh,rtic]Q:related .  126 
· Fron,: Doug Collins 
Date: August 2, 2021 at 6:20:20 PM EDT 
To: Driscoll, Robert 
Subject: Letter for Mr. JeffChuk 
Please find the attached letter for your client Mr. Jeff Clark. 
Thank you for your cooperation. 
NOTICE: In an Ideal world, pe,l'aps cllc'Hl'llfc/a!ses In lawyerernalltwo.Ad 1'101 bll noooaeary; but this II net 1n ldee!M>l'ld, sohoregon. Totle-malanci al 1ttachmenl9 
a111CONF IOENTW. and lntflnded S0La.Yt:lrthel9Clp:enb as tbltillcd In f!0"TO", "CC" rd ''OCC"lineaol lhislH!Wl lfyo., are l'IIJtan IIUl'IClld ~ ,ourf'8011pt of 
jh)e;o-ffl,llat)(lllsattac:tirnenlllslhereaul lolaninad\lOl1ooldllclD1UraorUN1Ultllxttedlnina."Tll!la l.Sendw...--anc11UMS1~rlghtltoconlldantlalty ,lndl.ldlng .. 
l)fhteget YA!lth may apply. Pl.'l'Sl.llnt':t> those rlglt• and privllevnt [rrmedlalety oaETE and DESTROY al coplu olthe e-ma~ and 11s almmmentl, In '#hato\lOr lorm, and 
mnedll~ NOTIFY lheaenduolvour recel~of!tl l&&.ffllll 00 NOT review,~- or rely on L, •nvway1hoOOfflCl'ltaofthlll &-mai and ltlaiachmentll , NO OUT(ESARE 
INTENDED OR CREATED f!YTHIS COMWNICATION. tr you II.we noteiwat.ed a fee OClltJaCl or an ongag11mant 11:ter, thll ffrrn 0009 NOT n,pNelf.')'OU II your almmlr,<. 
M0$1.legalr1gt:bhllvetfmtlNm'ta,Mdltlieo-ffll!lllciOC$l'IOCoon&tituti:adw:eonlheapplk:81.lonoflinltallor1pertodllneMqnu'y118tedabolle. Youa-eenoo.ngadto 
re1111ncoun.ut01yo.irCh010a .. youc,cwe10ooeo. AArlgt>Uc:lhel1811(111JOrYIOllltlor.11otcont11Jertt I11I1t'f1nc:lpr1V1 legesapplieablelolnllo-moN1ncfany al.tDc:tlrnel'll1re 
axp•eNly rneN9CI.  127 
.JAME~ C. WEIDNER 
ERNEST H. 'DUCKY• WOODS, 111 
DOUGLAS A. COLLINS 
WILl..:IAM Ft. 01.JVER 
(01-· COUNSEL) 
Mr. Jeff Clark: NorthGeorglal awyers.com 
August 2, 2021 
Wo represent former President DonaJd J. TL'Utnp and write concerning requests sent to 
you by the U.S. Houso ofRep,-escntatives Committee on Oversight nnd Reform and the 
U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee to provide U'8nscribed interviews on matters relaied to your 
service as Deputy Atton,ey General and Acting Attorney General during President Tmmp?s 
administ1"11 tion. We also understand that,•• set forth in its July 26, 2021, lettc1· to you, the U.S. 
Department of Justice stated that President Bi den decide.cl to waive die executive ond other 
privileges that protect from disclosure non-pubric infot·mation cOJ1cernlng those matters and has 
aut\)orizcd you to provide such infonnatioo . 
Please be advised that the Department' s purpm'ted waiver &nd eiuthorizatio11 al'e uni.awful, 
aud that President Trump continues to ossert tflat die non-public lnforrnatio!l tho Committees 
seek.is BOd should be protected from disclosure by th• executive privilege. The executive 
privilege applicable 1o comtnun\cat ions with President Trump belongs to !he Office of the 
Presidency, not to any iadividURl President, and President Biden has no power lo unilaterally 
waive it. The reason is Clear: jf e President were empowered 11.nilatcrally to waive executive 
privilege applicable tu comm.unicatians with his or her predecessors, pa,tjcularly those of the 
opposite patty, there would effectively be 110 executive Jllivilege. To the extent the privilege 
would continue to exist at all, it would become yet another weapon tu level the kind of 
unjustifiabl e partisan political attacks the Dernocrat-coutrolled administration and Committees 
""' seeking to level here. 
As the Supreme Court held in Nixon v . .Admh1/strator of General Services, 433 U.S. 425 
(1977)-where, like here, the then-cnrrent ndministrat ion did not suppo1't a fonner President's 
usserlion Of executive pri'Yilege -the executive privjlege is orucial to Executive Branch decision­
making: 
Unless [the President] can give his advise.rs some assurance of confidentiality, a 
President could not expect lo receive the full and frank submissions of !acts and 
opinions upon which. effective discharge of his duties :depends. The confidentiality 
necessaey to this e)(.change cannot be measured Qy the few 1nonths or years 
between tbe submission of the infomrntioo and the end of the President's tenure; 
the privilege is not for the benefit of the Preside11t as an individual, but for the 
benefit of the Republic.  128 
Nixon v. Administrator of General Services, 433 U.S. 425, 448-49 (\ 977). The Department's July 
26 letter to you quoted this decision but left out the very next sentence in the opinion: "Therefore, 
the privJlege survives the individual President's tenur-c." Id. at 448-49 (quoting, and adopting, 
Btief for the Solicitor General on Behalf of Federal Appel!ees) (emphasis added). 
Here, it is clear that even though President Biel en and the Department do not know the 
nature or content of the non-public info1mation the Committees seek, they have not s011ght or 
considered the views of the President who does.know as to whether the confidentia lity of that 
information at issue should continue to be prntccted. Such consideration is the minimum that 
should be required before a President waives the executive privilege protecting the 
communications of a predecessor. See Office of Legal Counsel Memorandum on Applicability 
of Post-Employment Restrictions in 18 U.$,C. § 207 to a Former Government Official 
Representing a Former Pl'esident 01· Vice President in Connection with the Presidential Records 
Act, June 20, 2001, at 5 ("[A]lthough the privilege belongs to the Presidency as an institution 
and not to any individual President, the person who served as President at the time the 
documents in question were created is 01\en particulal'iy well situated to determine whether the 
documents arn subject to a claim of executive privilege and, ifso, to recommend that the 
privilege be asserted and the documents withheld from disclosure."). 
Nonetheless, to avoid fw1.her djstraction and without in any way othe1wisc waiving the 
executive privilege associated with the matters the Committees are purporting to investigate, 
President Trump will agree not to seek judicial intervention to prevent your testimony or the 
testimony ofth<>five other former Department officials (Richard P. Donoghue, Pao·ick 
Hovakimian, Byung J. "BJay" Pak, Bobby L. Christine, and Jeffi-ey B. Clark) who have already 
received letters from the Depa1tment similar to the Jt1ly 26, 2021 letter you received, so long as 
the Committees do not seek pl'ivileged information from nny other Trnmp admlnistration 
officials or adviso.rs. lfthe Committees do seek such information, however, we will take all 
necessary and appropriate steps, on President Trump's behnlf, to defend the Office of the 
Presidency.  129 
EXHIBIT 5  130 
U.S. Department of Justice 
Office of the Deputy Attorney General 
81Y1dley WehisMimer lf'G$//ini{OII, D.C. JOjJQ 
Associate Deputy Attorney General 
July 26, 2021 
Jeffrey B. Clark 
Via email to Counsel 
Dear Mr. Clark: 
The Department of Justice (Department) understands that you have been requested by the 
U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and Reform (House Oversight 
Committee), and the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee to provide transcribed interviews to the 
Committees relating to your service as Assistant Attorney General for the Environment and 
Natural Resources Division and Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division. In 
these interviews, you are authorized to provide information you learned while at the Department 
as described more fully below. 
According to information provided to you and the Department by the House Oversight 
Committee, its focus is on "examining President Trump's efforts to pressure the Department of 
Justice (DOJ) to take official action to challenge the results of the presidential election and 
advance unsubstantiated allegations of voter fraud."1 The House Oversight Committee has stated 
that they wish to ask you questions "regarding any efforts by President Trump and others to 
advance unsubstantiated allegations of voter fraud, challenge the 2020 election results, interfere 
with Congress's count of the Electoral College vote, or overturn President Biden's certified 
victory,"2 
Based upon information provided to you and to the Department from the Senate Judiciary 
Committee, the Department understands that the scope of that Committee's inquiry is very 
similar to that of the House Oversight Committee. The letter to the Department dated January 
23, 2021, explained that the Senate Judiciary Committee is conducting oversight into public 
reporting about "an alleged plot between then-President Donald Trump and [you] to use the 
Department of Justice to further Trump's efforts to subvert the results of the 2020 presidential 
election"-cvents that the letter described as raising .. deeply troubling questions regarding the 
Justice Department 's role" in those purported cfforts.3 In addition, the Senate Judiciary 
1 Letter from Carolyn B. Maloney, Chainvoman , House Committee on Oversight and Rcfonn, to Jeffrey 8. Clark, 
June 14, 2021. 
1 fd. 
J Letter from Richard J. Durbin el al., Senate Judiciary Committee. to Monty Wilkinson, Acting Attorney General. 
Dcp't of Justice, January 23, 2021, at I, hnm·llwww iudicinry $C0DIS-R0v/prcss(dem /rclcas~stscn11te-judicjary· 
c9mmi1tcc-dcmocra1S:Seek-answeo•about-dois-ro le--in·trumos·scheme:tP:0Yenum·the·2020-eleclion.  131 
Committee has represented to the Department that the scope of its interview will cover your 
knowledge of attempts to involve the Department in efforts to challenge or overturn the 2020 
election results. Tlus includes your knowledge of any such attempts by Department officials or 
by White House officials to engage in such efforts. The Committee has further represented that 
the time frame for its inquiry will begin following former Attorney General William Barr's 
December 14, 2021, resignation announcement. 
Department attorneys, including those who have left the Departmen~ are obligated to 
protect nonMpublic information they learned in the course of their work. Such infonnation could 
be subject to various privileges , including law enforcement, deliberative process, attorney work 
produc~ attorney-client, and presidential communications privileges. The Department has a 
longstanding policy of closely protecting the confidentiality of decision-making communications 
among senior Department officials. Indeed, the Department generally does not disclose 
documents relating to such internal deliberations. For decades and across administrations , 
however, the Department has sought to balance the Executive Branch's confidentiality interests 
with Congress's legitimate need to gather information .4 
The extraordinary events in this matter constitute exceptional circumstances warranting 
an accommodation to Congress in this case. Congress has articulated compelling legislative 
interests in the matters being investigated, and the information the Committees have requested 
from you bears directly on Congress's interest in \Ulderstanding these extraordinary events: 
namely, the question whether former President Trump sought to cause the Department to use its 
law enforcement and litigation authorities to advance his personal political interests with respect 
to the results of the 2020 presidential election. After balancing the Legislative and Executive 
Branch interests, as required under the accommodation process, it is the Executive Branch's 
view that this presents an exceptional situation in which the congressional need for infonnation 
outweighs the Executive Branch'.s interest in maintaining confidentiality , 
The Executive Branch reached this view consistent with established practice. Because of 
the nature of the privilege, the Department has consulted with the White House Counsel1s Office 
. in considering whether to authorize you to provide information that may implicate the 
presidential communications privilege. The Counsel's Office conveyed to the Department that 
President Biden has decided that it would not be appropriate to assert executive privilege with 
respect to communications with fonner President Trump and his advisors and staff on matters 
related to the scope of the Committees ' proposed interviews, notwithstanding the view of former 
President Trump's counsel that executive privilege should be asserted to prevent testimony 
regarding these communications. See Nixon v . .Administrator of General Servs., 433 U.S. 425, 
449 (1977) C'[I]t must be presumed that the incumbent President is vitally concerned with and in 
the best position to assess the present and future needs of the Executive Branch, and to support 
"See Letter for Rep. John Linder, Chainnan, Subcommittee on Rtiles and Organization, from Robert RIWen, 
Assistant Attorney Genera~ Office of Legislative Affairs at 2 (Jan. 27, 2000) C'Linder Letter") ("In implementing 
the longstanding policy of the Executive Branch to comply with COngres1ional requests for infonnation to the fullest 
extent consistent with the Constitutional and statutory obllgatX>ns of the Executive Branch, the Department's goal in 
all CMeS is to satisfy legitimate legislative intol"C$ts while protecting Executive Branch confidentiality interests."). 
2  132 
invocation of the privilege accordingly."); see also Id. (explaining that the presidential 
communications privilege "is not for the benefit of the President as en individual, but for the 
benefit of the Republic') (internal citation omitted). 
Therefore, given these extraordinary circumstances, including President Biden's 
determination on executive privilege, and having reviewed the scope of the Committees' 
requested interviews, the Department authorizes you to provide unrestricted testimony to the 
Committees, irrespective of potential privilege, so Jong as the testimony is confined to the scope 
of the interviews as set forth by the Committees and as limited in the penultimate paragraph 
below.s Titis accommodation is Wlique to the facts and circumstances of this particular matter 
and the legislative interests that the Committees have articulated . 
Consistent with appropriate governmental privileges, the Department expects that you 
will decline to respond to questions outside the scope of the interview as outlined above and 
instead will advise the Committees to contact the Department's Office of Legislative Affairs 
should they seek information that you are unable to provide. 
Please note that it is important that you not discuss Department deliberations concerning 
investigations and prosecutions that were ongoing while you served in the Departmen~ The 
Department has a longstanding policy not to provide congressional testimony concerning 
prosecutorial deliberations. If prosecutors knew that their deliberations would become "subject 
to Congressional challenge and scrutiny, we would face a grave danger that they would be 
chilled from providing the candid and independent analysis essential to just and effective law 
enforcement or, just as troubling, that they might err on the side of prosecution simply to avoid 
public second-guessing." Linder Letter. Discussion of pending criminal cases and possible 
charges also could violate court rules and potentially implicate rules of professional conduct 
· governing extra-judicial statements. We assume, moreover, that Such Department deliberations 
are not within the scope of the requested testimony as defined by the Committees. 
Accordingly, consistent with standard practice, you should decline to answer any such 
questions and instead advise the Committees to contact the Department's Office of Legislative 
Affairs if they wish to follow up on the questions. Responding in such a way would afford the 
Department the full opportunity to consider particular questions and possible accommodations 
that may fulfill the Committees' legitimate need for information while protectiog Executive 
Branch confidentiality interests regarding investigations and prosecutions . 
Sincere!Y, L ~ 
5You are not authorized to reveal lnfonnatlon the disclosure of which is prohibited by law or court order, including 
classified infonnation and infonnation subject to Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 6(e),  133 
EXHIBIT 6  134 
From: -To: Harrv MacDouoald 
Cc: _,_ 
Subject: Clark Deposition at 4:00 
Date: Friday, November 5, 202112:42:00 PM 
Harry, 
I tried calling you a short while ago. I couldn't leave a message, as your cellphone voicemail box is 
full. I wanted to let you know that the Select Committee is reconvening for Mr. Clark's continued 
deposition at 4:00 today . The purpose of the reconvened deposition is to seek a ruling from the 
Chairman on Mr. Clark's assertion of privilege and refusal to answer questions. The House Rules I 
sent you this week provide (in pertinent part) that "[w]hen the witness has refused to answer a 
question to preserve a privilege, members of staff may (i) proceed with the deposition , or (ii) 
either at that time or at a subsequent time, seek a ruling from the Chair either by telephone or 
otherwise . If the Chair overrules any such objection and thereby orders a witness to answer any 
question to which an objection was lodged, the witness shall be ordered to answer." Please 
return to the O'Neill House Office Building with Mr. Clark at that time, or indicate your refusal to do 
so. 
We are preparing a response to the letter to the Chairman you delivered this morning. We will 
provide that letter as soon as it is complete, before or at 4:00. 
Thanks, 
■- 135 
EXHIBIT 7  136 
From: Harry MacDougald 
Sent: Friday, November 5, 2021 3:25 PM 
To: 
Cc: 1111,_ 
Subject: Re: Clark Deposition at 4:00 -I am in the air on the way back to Atlanta. Therefore it will not be possible for us to return at 4 pm. I cannot allow Mr. 
Clark to appear without counsel. This is a basic feature of due process, which equally governs Congress as it does other 
branches of government. 
As for the Chairman overruling our objections and ordering us to appear despite the objections on pain of criminal 
contempt (and without prejudice to making additional arguments since it is difficult for a tall man especially to work on 
a plane, and therefore while reserving all rights), t note the following responses. Fortunately, I had some ability to cut 
and paste from my device, despite the cramped quarters and nature of work on a plane: 
(1) Congress lacks the power to apply law to fact. That is an exclusively judicial power. Hence, consistent with the U.S. 
Constitution, the Chair cannot overrule an objection that encompasses anything more than purely procedural matters 
exclusively confined to congressional rules. Mr. Clark stands on the separation of powers. See Plaut v. Spendthrift Farm, 
514 U.S. 211 (1995) (Congress lacks power to invade judicial province of applying law to fact, and where it acts with 
respect to one particular person it raises special concerns that it is disfavoring (as here) or favoring particular 
individua ls). In light of Plaut, only an Article Ill court can rule on whether my objections on behalf of Mr. Clark in light of 
privilege doctrines and, without restriction, all of the legal points made in my letter to the Chair dated today. 
(2) There are also serious due process problems with the Committee Chair purporting to rule on objections. The old 
maxim in common law (and perhaps equity as well) that man cannot be the judge of his own case applies 
here. (Discovery would be a lot different if I got to rule on the validity of all the objections to my questions .) Despite 
that maxim, this is nevertheless precisely what appears to be the situation here with the Chair simply confirming desires 
he has made clear in advance from statements to the press and in other January 6 proceedings. 
(3) Related to point (2), the Committee and its Chair cannot rely on structural committee fairness as a kind of ersatz 
substitute for due process-- in general or in specific. This is especially true because the Committee is formulated to be a 
political monolith. As you are aware, the Committee's membership is purpose-built and allowed the minority no ability 
to participate in its proceedings. This stacks the deck and whenever procedural decks are stacked, due process 
principles are being violated. See, e.g., AirTransp. Ass'n of Am. v. National Mediation Board, 663 F.3d 476 (D.C. Cir. 
2011) ("Decisionmakers violate the Due Process Clause and must be disqualified when they act with an 'unalterably 
closed mind' and are 'unwilling or unable' to rationally consider arguments."). We have seen no indication in the fashion 
in which the Committee is proceeding that it has anything other than an unalterably closed mind. 
Finally, I note that our invitation to discuss a narrowed scope of inquiry pending resolution of the executive privilege 
issues in Trump v. Thompson remains open. 
With best regards, 
Harry W. MacDougald 
Caldwell, Carlson, Elliott & Deloach, LLP  137 
On November 5, 2021 at 12:42:23 PM, wrote: 
Harry, 
I tried calling you a short while ago. I couldn't leave a message, as your cellphone voicema i1 box is full. I 
wanted to let you know that the Select Committee is reconvening for Mr. Clark's continued deposition 
at 4:00 today . The purpose of the reconvened deposition is to seek a ruling from the Chairman on Mr. 
Clark's assertion of privilege and refusal to answer questions. The House Rules I sent you this week 
provide (in pertinent part) that "[w]hen the witness has refused to answer a question to preserve a 
privilege, members of staff may (i) proceed with the deposition , or (ii) either at that time or at a 
subsequent time, seek a ruling from the Chair either by telephone or otherwise. If the Chair overrules 
any such objection and thereby orders a witness to answer any question to which an objection was 
lodged, the witness shall be ordered to answer." Please return to the O'Neill House Office Building 
with Mr. Clark at that time, or indicate your refusal to do so. 
We are preparing a response to the letter to the Chairman you delivered this morning. We will provide 
that letter as soon as it is complete, before or at 4:00. 
Thanks, - 138 
EXHIBIT 8  139 
BEr,l,.EG.r:=NMISSlSS IPl'I U.SHouNo!Rep....,,,a1,­
WHhongton.DC20515 
(l)n, :!llunbrrb i,,urntttnt4 (![ongrrss )lnuary61hJ,ouM.go,, 
(1021225-7IIOO 
i,t1,ct (![ommitttt to .llnu,stigat, 14, ;Jlanuaru 614 Attack on 14, lllnittb l,tatts (![apitol 
November 5, 2021 
Mr. Harry MacDougald 
Caldwell, Carlson, Elliott & Deloach, LLP -
Dear Mr. MacDougald, 
I write in response to your November 5, 2021, letter on behalf of your client, Jeffrey Clark. 
The letter was handed to Select Committee staff when you arrived for Mr. Clark's deposition at 
I 0:00 am this morning (the "November 5 letter"). We are prepared to resume the deposition of 
your client at 4:00 pm this afternoon, at which time I will rule on the claims of privilege you raised 
in this morning's session. A more detailed response to the November 5 letter will be forthcoming. 
Service of the subpoena that was accepted on Mr. Clark's behalf by Robert Driscoll, Esq. 
on October 13, 2021. The subpoena called for Mr. Clark to appear on October 29, 2021, to provide 
documents and testimony.1 All the requested documents relate directly to the inquiry being 
conducted by the Select Committee, serve a legitimate legislative purpose, and are within the scope 
of the authority expressly delegated to the Select Committee pursuant to House Resolution 503. In 
the October 13, 2021, letter that accompanied the subpoena, the Select Committee set forth the 
basis for its determination that the documents and records sought by the subpoena and Mr. Clark's 
deposition testimony are of critical importanc e to the issues being investigated by the Select 
Committee. 
ln your November 5 letter, and on the record in this morning's session of the deposition, 
you stated that Mr. Clark would not answer any of the Select Committee's questions on any subject 
and would not produce any documents based on broad and undifferentiated assertions of various 
privileges, including claims of executive privilege purportedly asserted by former President 
Trump.2 Your reliance on executive privilege is wholly misplaced and does not provide a basis for 
your client's blanket refusal to produce documents or answer any of the Select Committee's 
questions. 
In support of your executive privilege assertion, you have directed the Select Committee 
to an August 2, 2021, letter from Douglas Collins, counsel for former President Trump (the 
1 At your request, Comminee staff agreed to continue the appearance and production date to today. 
2 The November 5 letter also asserts, without meaningful discussion or authority, that the testimony 
sought by the Committee is "outside the scope of the Committee's charter."  140 
Mr. Harry MacDouga ld 
Page 2 
"August 2 letter"), and your interpretat ion of certain events since the delivery of the August 2 
letter. None of these documents or arguments justify Mr. Clark's position. 
First, neither the November 5 letter, the August 2 letter, nor any information you provided 
on the record in this morning's session reflects an assertion of executive privilege conveyed to the 
Select Committee by fonner President Trump with respect to the testimony and document 
production of Mr. Clark. The August 2 letter specifically notes that Mr. Trump will not seek 
judicial intervention to prevent your client's testimony,3 and you stated on the record today that 
you have received no further instructions from former President Trump with respect to Mr. Clark's 
testimony. While the November 5 letter expresses your view that subsequent actions by former 
President Trump-specifically, letters to other subpoenaed individuals and litigation filed seeking 
injunctive relief regarding a document request to the National Archives --rellect a change in Mr. 
Trump's position with respect to Mr. Clark, you have not demonstrated to the Select Committee 
that you have made any effort to confirm that Mr. Trump agrees with your analysis, nor have you 
indicated receipt of any communication from Mr. Trump or his counsel reflecting some revised 
instructions to Mr. Clark. ln fact, you indicated this morning that you had not sought concurrence 
with this position or otherwise engaged with representat ives for former President Trump. Further, 
the Select Committee has received no direct commun ication from former President Trump or his 
representatives asserting privilege over information sought by the Select Committee's subpoena 
to Mr. Clark. Accordingly, your client's refusal to testify cannot be based on his supposition 
regarding Mr. Trump's position. 
Second, even assuming the former President were to have formally invoked privilege with 
respect to Mr. Clark, the law does not support the type of blanket testimonial immunity that he has 
claimed for himself. To the contrary, every court that has considered the absolute immunity Mr. 
Clark has claimed has rejected it. See, e.g., Comm. on the Judiciary v. Miers, 558 F. Supp. 2d 53, 
I 06 (D.D.C. 2008) (rejecting former White House counsel's assertion of absolute immunity from 
compelled congressional process); Comm. on !he Judiciary v. McGalm, 415 F. Supp. 3d 148,203 
(D.D.C. 2019) ('This Court finds that the Miers court rightly detertnined not only that the principle 
of absolute testimonial immunity for senior-level presidential aides has no foundation in law, but 
also that such a proposition conflicts with key tenets of our constitutional order.").4 Similarly, 
courts have rejected blanket, non-specific claims of executive privilege over the production of 
documents to Congress . See Comm. on Oversighl & Gov'r Reform v. Holder, No. 12-cv-1332, 
2014 WL I 2662665, at *2 (D.D.C. Aug. 20, 2014) (rejecting a "blanket" executive-privilege claim 
over subpoenaed documents). 
3 The August 2 letter makes reference to a July 26, 2021, letter from the Departmen t of Justice authorizing 
you to provide unrestricted testimony to the Select Committee within the scope of its inquiry, subject to 
certain limitations regarding Department deliberations concerning investigations and prosecutions. A 
copy of the Department's July 26 letter is attached. 
4 The McGahn court could not have been more clear in its holding: "To make the point as plain as 
possible, it is clear to this Court ... that, with respect to senior-level presidential aides, absolute immunity 
from compelled congressional process simply does not exist." Id. at 214.  141 
Mr. Harry MacDougald 
Page 3 
In light of this clear authority, even if former President Trump had explicitly directed Mr. 
Clark to assert executive privilege , Mr. Clark could only assert that privilege with respect to 
documents and testimony to which it applies. As the D.C. Circuit noted in In re Sealed Case (Espy), 
121 F.3d 729, 752 (D.C. Cir. 1997): 
[Executive] privilege should not extend to staff outside the White House in executive 
branch agencies. Instead, the privilege should apply only to communications authored or 
solicited and received by those members ofan immediate White House adviser's staff who 
have broad and significant responsibility for investigating and formulating the advice to be 
given the President on the particular matter to which the communications relate. 
See also Commiuee on the Judicia,y v. Miers, 558 F. Supp. 2d at JOO (privilege claimants 
acknowledged that executive privilege applies only to "a very small cadre of senior advisors"). 
Further, the Select Committee views as tenuous at best any claims of Mr. Clark that 
executive privilege bars the Select Committee from obtaining Mr. Clark's testimony and 
documents. Mr. Clark was not among the "small cadre of senior advisors" to former President 
Trump, and, therefore, cannot invoke executive privilege with respect to communications with 
anyone other than the President. Likewise, only those presidentia l communications that relate to 
official government business would be covered by the privilege. In re Sealed Case (Espy), 121 
F.3d at 752 ("the privilege only applies to communications ... in the course of performing their 
function of advising the President on official government matters"). Even assuming executive 
privilege was invoked by former President Trump, Mr. Clark would be required to assert any claim 
of executive privilege narrowly and specifica lly. See, e.g., Id. ("the presidential communications 
privilege should be construed as narrowly as is consistent with ensuring that the confidentiality of 
the President's decisionmaking process is adequate ly protected "). 
At this morning's session, the Select Committee and its staff made several attempts to 
define the scope of Mr. Clark's blanket assertion of privilege. 5 Neither you nor Mr. Clark were not 
willing to engage on this issue, other than to repeatedly refer to the November 5 letter. Members 
and staff shared with you the legal authority (including the Miers case cited above) that precludes 
your client from categorically claiming privilege and asked you to identify the specific privileges 
you were claiming and the scope of those privilege claims, i.e., which areas of the anticipated 
testimony and which responsive documents are covered by the claimed privileges. Again, you 
cited your November 5 letter, but would not otherwise provide this information to elucidate your 
position. Select Committee Members and sta!T asked your client a series of questions regarding 
5 Mr. Clark repeatedly took issue with the use of the term "blanket" when describing his refusal to answer 
substantive questions within the scope of the Select Committee's inquiry. However, his consistent refusal 
to respond to a broad range of questions and topics posed by the Members and staff at this morning's 
session, coupled with the categorical assertion in your November 5 letter that Mr. Clark "must decline to 
testify as a threshold matter" and your decision to walk out of the deposition certainly constitutes a 
"blanket assertion."  142 
Mr. Harry MacDougald 
Page 4 
topics within the scope of the Select Committee's inquiry, but your client would answer only one 
of the substantive questions .6 
The breadth of your client's assertions of privilege raises questions regarding whether there 
is a good faith basis for his position. Your client refused to answer questions about the events of 
January 6, his comments to the press about the events of January 6, when he first met a certain 
member of Congress, whether he had ever interacted with members of Congress, his involvement 
in discussions regarding election procedure in Georgia, how he obtained information relevant to 
assertions regarding alleged election fraud, and whether he used personal devices to conduct 
official government business while he was employed at the U.S. Department of Justice. None of 
these areas of inquiry even remotely implicate executive privilege, even if such a privilege had 
been formally invoked by former President Trump. 
You have been advised that the deposition will resume at 4:00 pm this afternoon, at which 
time I will formally reject your claims of privilege. We expect your client to produce responsive 
documents forthwith and proceed with the deposition. The Select Committee will view Mr. Clark's 
failure to do so as willful non-compl iance with the Subpoena. His continued non-complia nce with 
the Subpoena will force the Select Committee to consider referring him to the Department of 
Justice for contempt of Congress, pursuant to Title 2, United States Code, Section 192, as well as 
the possibility of having a civil action to enforce the subpoena brought against Mr. Clark in his 
personal capacity. 
Sincerely, 
Bennie G. Thompson 
Chairman 
6 That question related to a document request related to a particular email account.  143 
EXHIBIT 9  144 
CALDWELL. CARLSON. 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
HAkllY 'fl. MACOOUCALD 
\411.-..AGING PARTNER 
November 8, 2021 
Hon. Bennie G. Thompson, Chairman 
January 6th Select Committee 
U.S. House of Representatives 
Longworth House Office Building 
Washington, DC 20515 
Dear Representative Thompson: 
I write to respond briefly to yot1r November 5, 2021 letter, which in turn responded 
to my letter to you dated that same day.1 Your letter was sent to llS at approximately 4:30 
pm EDT on November 5 by ■■■■ I yet it demanded we re-appear for a deposition 
at 4:00 pm EDT. See Attachment A. Obviously, that was physically impossible, and I was 
at that point in the air on the way back to Atlanta. An earlier email calling for a return 
appearance at that same hour had been sent to me, but we are hard-pressed to imagine 
how you could have reviewed our detailed 12-page letter, given it due consideration 
along with the statements made on the record, and then ruled on all of the objections 
made. Additionally , I note that, while on the plane, I also sent a brief email making 
additional legal points that your letter did not respond to. See Attachment B. 
Turning to substance, we disagree with your November 5, 2021 letter and will 
respond more fully to it in a subsequent letter (see below). Suffice to say for purposes of 
this brief letter, which I have prepared largely to acknowledge receipt of your late-in-the­
day November 5 letter out of due respect for the Committee, we do not agree that Mr. 
Clark, on Friday November 5 issued a "blanket refusal to produce documents or answer 
1 This letter reminds you and the Committee of the same reservations of rights stated in my November 5, 
2021 letter to you. For reasons of economy of words, I will not restate those reservations here,  145 
CALDWELL, CARLSON. 
ELLIOTT & DELOA CH. LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 8, 2021 
Page2 
any of the Select Committee's questions." Rep. Thompson Letter, at 1 (Nov. 5, 2021); see 
also id. (relatedly and wrongly asserting that we asserted "absolute immunity").' Those 
are unfortunate mischaracterizations that counsel for the Committee and several 
Committee members in attendance repeatedly attempted last Friday, but repetition wiJl 
not make those mischaracterizations correct. As just a few examples of this, we 
repeatedly indicated on the record that we wished to continue the dialogue and in the 
concluding paragraph of my letter I specifically stated that "I would be happy to engage 
on" ... "a more limited scope of inquiry narrowed to January 6," which is what we believe 
is all the Committee's limited charter extends to. 
And we repeatedly clarified that our threshold objection is based on matters of 
i-irning, prudence, and fairness, not on purported executive-privilege absolutism. There 
is substantia l overlap between what the subpoena to Mr. Oark identifies as the reasons 
for seeking Mr. Clark's testimony and the matters over which former President Trump 
has sought to maintain executive privilege in the pending Trump v. Thompson litigation. 
At the very least, until that litigation reaches a final outcome in the Judicial Branch, Mr. 
Clark would be in ethical jeopardy of wrongly guessing how that litigation will come out. 
Accordingly, it is best for all involved to await clarification of the parameters and 
application of executive privilege in that closely related dispute now in litigation. 
We do not yet have a rough, non-final transcript of Friday's proceeding, but we 
recaH■■■■ -indicating on the record that the Committee may not "want to" wait 
until the Trump v. Thompson privilege Litigation is complete. But we cannot understand 
why not. The House could easily draft a bill now to, for instance, (i) harden the security 
of the Capitol; (ii) narrow the valid time, place, and manner aspects of First Amendment 
protests held at or near the Capitol, as long as any new limitations comported with free 
expression and petition-for-redress principle s; (iii) designate a lead agency to coordinate 
Capitol security during significant protests; (iv) better share between Article 1 and Tl 
officials any pre-event intelligen ce gathered, as well as social media and other Internet 
2 Your lellercites tu non-Supreme Courl case law on the issue of absolute immunity. It should go without 
saying (but we state it explicitly to avoid any ambiguity) that we reserve the right to contest the validity or 
applicability of such case law, including by seeking review by the Nation's highest court, should that ever 
become necessary .  146 
CALDWELL, CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie C. Thompson 
November 8, 2021 
Page 3 
"chatter" regarding planned activities of a suspicious nature that could impact the 
Capitol's safety, etc-3 Congress 's ability to draft, debate, and pass such worthy and 
protective legislation is not somehow hopelessly frozen while this Committee engages in 
various depositions or interview s, particularly of Mr. Clark. 
Finally, as dicated at the outset of the Friday proceeding, please 
share the transcript of that proceeding with us. Next, we will await the Committee' s 
completion of the "more detailed response to the November 5 letter" that you say "will 
be forthcoming" before we complete a more detailed foJJow-up letter. ln conjunction 
with that effort, we will also want to have the transcript in hand, and make clarifications 
as appropriate, etc., either separately or by combinjng that with our more detailed 
forthcoming letter. 
Thank you for your attention to this matter, Mr. Chairman. 
Respectfully, 
/21/el;;~:;r, LLP 
H~V. MacDougald 
Encs. 
cc: Jeffrey Bossert Clark 
3 Indeed, we sec that Congress has already passed legislation that provides for additiona l security at the 
Capitol. And, presuming Congress's legislative rationality, this would appear to discharge any eicigcnl 
needs that Congress judged necessary to ensure its safety. See, e.g., Mary Clare Jalonick, Congress Passes 
Emergency Capitol Security Money. Afghan Aid Ouly 29, 2021), available at htJC:-~ -Dillil.a~.~il)'..:. &~~~~'i'S~e~i!JlliQtl<.-~.1!.ID 1-mo11e~0:.ilh:Lh1m.l .  147 
Attachment "A"  148 
Subject Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. 
From,-1••······· -Cc,_,_, __ DatocNo,omba<5 ,2021 at 4:30~ t9:W'Ll-ll-tl.t:SUL LenertoHarryMac~~ effreyClarl<.pdf 
Mr. MacDougald, 
Please see the letter attached. 
ThanK you, - 149 
Attachment "B"  150 
Subject: Re: Clark Deposition at 4:00 
From:■■■■■■■ -To :- -Cc:_,_ -Date: November 5,2021 at 3:24 PM -: 
I am in the air on the way back to Atlanta. Therefore it will not be possible for us to return at 4 pm. I cannot 
allow Mr. Clark to appear without counsel. Th.is is a basic feature of due process, which equally governs 
Congress as it does other branches of government. 
As for the Chairman ovem11ing our objection s and ordering us to appear despite the objection s on pain of 
criminal contempt (and without prejudice to making additional argument s since it is difficult for a tall man 
especially to work on a plane, and therefore while reserving all rights), I note the following responses. 
Fortunately , I had some ability to cut and paste from my device, despite the cramped quarters and nanue of 
work on a plane: 
(1) Congress lacks the power to apply law to fact. That is an exclusively judicial power. Hence, consistent with 
the U.S. Constitution , the Chair cannot ovemlle an objection that encompasse s anything more than pmely 
procedural matters exclusively confined to congressional rules. Mr. Clark stands on the separation of powers. 
See Plaut v. Spendthrift Fann, 514 U.S. 211 (1995) (Congress lacks power to invade judicial province of 
applying law to fact, and where it acts with respect to one particular person it raises special concerns that it is 
disfavoring (as here) or favoring partictllar individual s). In light of Plaut, only an Article III court can nlle on 
whether my objections on behalf of Mr. Clark in light of privilege doctrines and, without restriction, all of the 
legal points made in my letter to the Chair dated today. 
(2) There are also serious due process problems with tl1e Committee Chair purporting to mle on objection s. TI1e 
old maxim in common law (and perhaps equity as well) that man cannot be the judge of his own case applies 
here. (Discovery would be a lot different if I got to mle on the validity of all the object.ion s to my questions.) 
Despite that maxim, this is neverthe less precisely what appears to be the situation here with the Chair simply 
confinnin g desires he has made clear in advance from statements to the press and in other January 6 
proceeding s. 
(3) Related to point (2), the Committee and its Chair cannot rely on stmctural committee fairness as a kind of 
ersatz substin1te for due process --in general or in specific. This is especially tme because the Committee is 
fonnulated to be a political monolith. As you are aware, the Committee 's membership is purpose-built and 
allowed the minority no ability to participate in its proceeding s. This stacks the deck and whenever procedmal 
decks are stacked, due process principle s are being violated. See, e.g., Air Transp. Ass'n of Am. v. National 
Mediation Board, 663 F.3d 476 (D.C. Cir. 2011) ("Decisionmaker s violate the Due Process Clause and must be 
disqualified when they act with an 'unalterably closed mind' and are 'unwilling or unable' to rationally consider 
argument s."). We have seen no indication in the fashion in which the Committee is proceeding that it has 
anything other than an unalterabl y closed mind. 
Finally, I note that our invitation to discuss a nanowed scope of inquiry pending resolution of the executive 
privilege issues in Tmmp v. Thompson remains open. 
With best regards, 
Harry W. MacDougald 
Caldwell, Carlson, Elliott & Deloach, LLP 
On November 5, 2021 at 12:42:23 PM, ) wrote:  151 
Harry, 
I tried calling you a short while ago. I couldn't leave a message, as your cellphone voicemail box is 
full. I wanted to let you know that the Select Committee is reconvening for Mr. Clark's continued 
deposition at 4:00 today . The purpose of the reconvened deposition is to seek a ruling from the 
Chainnan on Mr. Clark's assertion of privilege and refusal to answer questions. The House Rules I 
sent you this week provide (in pertinent part) that "[w]hen the witness has refused to answer a 
question to preserve a privilege, members of staff may (i) proceed with the deposition, or (ii) 
either at that time or at a subsequent time, seek a ruling from the Chair either by telephone 
or otherwise . If the Chair overrules any such objection and thereby orders a witness to 
answer any question to which an objection was lodged, the witness shall be ordered to 
answer." Please return to the O'Neill House Office Building with Mr. Clark at that time, or 
indicate your refusal to do so. 
We are preparing a response to the letter to the Chairman you delivered this morning. We will 
provide that letter as soon as it is complete, before or at 4:00. 
Thanks, -
■- 152 
EXHIBIT 10  153 
BEr,l,.EG.r:=NMISSlSS IPl'I 
(l)n, :!llunbrrb i,,urntttnt4 (![ongrrss U.SHouNo!Rep....,,,a1,­
WHhongton.DC20515 
)lnuary61hJ,ouM.go,, 
(1021225-7IIOO 
i,t1,ct (![ommitttt to .llnu,stigat, 14, ;Jlanuaru 614 Attack on 14, lllnittb l,tatts (![apitol 
November 9, 2021 
Mr. Harry MacDougald 
Caldwell, Carlson, Ell ion & DeLoach , LLP -
Dear Mr. MacDougald, 
I write in response to your letter dated November 5, 2021 (the "November 5 letter"), and 
to advise you of my ruling on the objections raised by your client, Jeffrey B. Clark, during his 
depositio n. Mr. Clark has not offered a legitimate basis for refusing to comply with the Select 
Committee's subpoena. As discussed in detail below, Mr. Clark's failure to provide document s 
and testimony to the Select Comminee puts him at risk of both criminal and civil contempt of 
Congress proceeding s. 
I. Background 
Mr. Clark was obligated to appear before the Select Committee to Investigate the January 
6th Attack on the United States Capitol pursuant to the subpoena issued on October 13, 2021.1 
This subpoena followed discussions between counsel for the Select Committee and Mr. Clark 
starting in early•September. At no time during these discussions did Mr. Clark assert that certain 
privileges would prevent him from providing ~ documents or testimony in response to the 
subpoena. Indeed, the discussions followed receipt by Mr. Clark of a letter from the U.S. 
Department of Justice expressly notifying him of the executive branch's "authoriz[ation] to 
provide information [Mr. Clark] learned while at the Department " related to events that are central 
to the Select Committee.2 See Letter from B. Weinsheimer, July 26, 2021 (the "DOJ letter"), a 
copy of which is attached. 
1 The subpoena initially required Mr. Clark 10 provide documents and testimony on October 29, 2021. After the 
withdrawal of Mr. Clark's former counsel and your appearance on his behalf, Committee staff agreed to continue 
both the appearance and production date to November 5, 2021, at I 0:00 a.m. 
2 Mr. Clark received this authorization at the same time as did two of his superiors at the Department of Justice 
during the time relevant to this Committee's inquiry. Both of Mr. Clark's superiors, fonner Acting Attorney General 
Jeffrey Rosen and fonner Acting Depu1y Allorney General Richard Donoghue , have provided testimony before the 
Senate Judiciary Committee as well as this Comminee. Notwithstanding the authorizat ion of the executive branch, 
as communicated by the Department 10 Mr. Clark, and the example of his former superiors, Mr. Clark refused to 
agree to a voluntary interview requested by the Senate Judiciary Commillee. Subvening Justice: How 1he Former  154 
Mr. Harry MacDouga ld 
Page 2 
On November 5, 2021, both you and Mr. Clark appeared as directed before the Select 
Committee but only to hand-deliver a letter, which you maintained explained the bases for his 
refusal to comply with the subpoena. In that letter, and on the record at the deposition, you stated 
that Mr. Clark would not answer any of the Select Committee's questions on any subject and would 
not produce any documents.3 These refusals were based on broad and undifferentiated assertions 
of various privileges, including claims of executive privilege purportedly asserted by former 
President Trump. In fact, instead of specifica lly identifying the privilege applicable to a question 
or requested document, as the law requires, your Novembe r 5 letter asserts: "The general category 
of executive privilege, the specific categories of the presidential communications, law 
enforcement, and deliberative process privileges, as well as the attorney-client privilege and the 
work product doctrine .... " Then, despite attempts during the deposition by Committee Members 
and staff counsel to obtain information from you and your client as to the boundaries of the 
privilege(s) asserted, Mr. Clark refused to answer questions, cited the 12-page Novembe r 5 letter 
that you delivered only as the deposition began, and walked out of the deposition. 
Before your client's abrupt departure , Select Committee staff counsel made clear that the 
depositio n would remain in recess, subject to the call of the Chair, while the Select Committee 
evaluated your November 5 letter. Following consideration of your letter, I reconvened the 
deposition later in the afternoon on November 5. Despite receiving clear notice of such 
reconvening, your client failed to attend the deposition when it was resumed. Specifica lly, after 
leaving the deposition at approximately 11 :30 a.m., you were informed at 12:42 p.m. by email 
from staff counsel that the Select Committee would reconvene the deposition at 4:00 p.m. to seek 
a ruling by the Chair on your client's privilege assertions and refusal to answer questions. Neither 
you nor Mr. Clark appeared at the appointed time for the reconvened deposition, nor did you 
respond to staff counsel's email until 3:24 p.m., at which time you stated that you were on an 
airplane traveling back to Atlanta. See email from H. MacDougald, attached. 
When the Select Committee reconvened Mr. Clark's deposition, I noted for the record that 
your client is not entitled to refuse to provide testimony to the Select Committee based on 
categorica l claims of privilege. Accordingly, consistent with applicable law and the House's 
depositio n rules, I overruled Mr. Clark's objections and directed him to answer the questions posed 
by Members and Select Committee counsel. 
This morning, we received an additional letter (the "November 8 letter") you sent to staff 
counsel acknowledging receipt of my November 5 letter and notice of my rulings on the objections 
you raised at your deposition on November 5. 
Presidenr and /-!is Allies Pressured DOJ lo Over/urn !he 2020 Elecrion, Senate Judiciary Comminee (Oct. 7, 2021) 
("Senate Judiciary Report"). 
3 Although Mr. Clark argued with the Select Committee as to whether his refusal to answer substantive questions 
within the scope of the Select Committee's inquiry was properly described as "blanket" or "absolutist," your message 
was clear: "We're not answering questions today. We're not producing documents today."  155 
Mr. Harry MacDougald 
Page 3 
II. Mr. Clark's Refusal to Comply with the Subpoena ls Wholly Without Merit 
As reflected in my initial response to your November 5 letter, your assertions of privilege 
are unavailing. First, you have not clearly established the foundational predicate for your assertion 
regarding executive privilege: a clear invocation of the privilege by the president (or former 
president). Second, Mr. Clark is not entitled to assert a blanket objection to all questions and 
document requests. Third, even if executive privilege was directly and properly invoked, Mr. 
Clark's reliance on executive privilege is tenuous, at best. In any event, the current administration 
has determined that, with regard to the subjects that are the focus of the testimony sought, the 
"congressional need for information outweighs the Executive Branch's interest in maintaining 
confidentiality." See DOJ letter at 2. 
A. Your November 5 letter Pr011itles No Va/it/ Basis/or Your Client's Assertion that 
Mr. Trump has Invoked Executive Prfri/ege in a Manner that Pree/mies 
Compliance with the Subpoena 
Your November 5 letter makes the unremarkable statement that a President should be able 
to confidentially confer with aides, and then spends more than six pages seeking to cobble together 
a claim that Mr. Trump has, in effect, instructed Mr. Clark not to testify in response to the instant 
subpoena. Notably absent from your November 5 letter is any indication that Mr. Trump or his 
counsel clearly invoked executive privilege regarding Mr. Clark's testimony. Further, the August 
2, 2021 letter attached to your November 5 letter specifically notes that Mr. Trump will not seek 
judicial intervention to prevent your client's testimony. You have offered no communication from 
Mr. Trump asserting executive privilege over Mr. Clark's testimony or any documents he may 
possess. You also acknowledged on the record that you have not sought to confirm this position 
or otherwise engage with representatives for Mr. Trump.4 Under these circumstances, there is no 
actual claim by Mr. Trump of executive privilege covering Mr. Clark's testimony and materials, 
and an inexplicable lack of even the most minimal effort on your part to discover if such an 
assertion of privilege is being made. 
In addition, the Select Committee has received no direct communication from Mr. Trump 
or his representatives asserting any privilege over information sought by the Select Committee's 
subpoena to Mr. Clark. According ly, your client's refusal to testify cannot be based on his 
supposition regarding Mr. Trump's position. 
B. Mr. Clark is Not Entitled to Make a Blanket Objection to all Questions mu! 
Document Requests 
Beyond citing the general need for confidentiality between a President and his advisers and 
the obviously flawed effort to construe Mr. Coll ins's August 2 letter as a directive from Mr. Trump 
not to comply with the subpoena, your November 5 letter fails to articulate any sound basis for 
your client's failure to respond to the questions put to him at his deposition. Nowhere in your 12-
page letter do you address the court decisions that clearly hold that even close advisers to a 
4 Specifically, you said. "I have had no communication with any attorney for Mr. Trump about any of this."  156 
Mr. Harry MacDougald 
Page4 
president (which Mr. Clark was not) may not refuse to answer questions based on broad and 
undifferentiated privilege assertions.5 
As noted in my November 5 letter, several courts have addressed the type of absolute 
testimonial immunity posited by your letter and Mr. Clark's actions. All have held that no such 
immunity exists, even where the incumbent president had clearly and unequivocally invoked 
executive privilege (not invocation by inference and supposition as you offer) and the witness was 
within the small cadre of immediate White House advisers for whom executive privilege has been 
held to apply. See, e.g., Comm. on the Judiciary v. Miers, 558 F. Supp. 2d 53, 106 (D.D.C. 2008) 
(rejecting former White House Counsel Harriet Miers's assertion of absolute immunity from 
compelled congressiona l process); Comm. on the Judiciary v. McGa/m, 415 F. Supp. 3d 148,203 
(D.D.C. 2019) (rejecting claim of White House Counsel Don McGahn on grounds that "the 
principle of absolute testimonial immunity for senior-level presidential aides has no foundation in 
law, but also that such a proposition conflicts with key tenets of our constitutional order"). 
Unlike Mr. Clark, both Ms. Miers and Mr. McGahn, as White House Counsel, served as 
close legal advisers to the president. In both the Miers and McGahn cases, the President issued an 
unambiguous instruction for the witness not to testify in response to a congressio nal subpoena6 (; 
and, in both cases, the courts rejected this approach, instead requiring these advisors to appear and 
indicate specific objections to specific questions.7 As the court stated in McGahn: "To make the 
point as plain as possible, it is clear ... that, with respect to senior-level presidential aides, 
absolute immunity from compelled congressional process simply does not exist." Id. at 214 
(emphasis added). Your letter failed to address either Miers or McGahn and pointed to no contrary 
authority supporting or justifying your client's conduct. 
At the deposition, Members and staff posed a series of questions to Mr. Clark regarding 
issues such as whether he used his personal phone or email for official business, whether or how 
he first met a specific Member of Congress, and what statements he made to the media regarding 
January 6 (statements to which your November 5 letter specifically referred). Mr. Clark refused to 
answer the questions and refused to provide a specific basis for his position, instead pointing 
generally to your November 5 letter.8 Your November 5 letter, however, provides no authority or 
argument to justify Mr. Clark's approach; nor does it articulate the specific privileges you and he 
are claiming apply to the questions put to him at the deposition. 
s Courts have similarly rejected blanket, non-spec ific claims of executive privilege over the production of 
documents to Congress. See Comm. on Oversight & Gov't Reform v. Holder, No. 12•ev•l332, 2014 WL 12662665 , 
at *2 (D.D.C. Aug. 20, 2014) (rejecting a "blanket" executive-privilege claim over subpoenae d documents) . 
6 Miers, 558 F. Supp. 2d at 62; McGalm, 415 F. Supp. 3d at 153. 
7 Miers, 558 F. Supp. 2d at 106; McGalm, 415 F. Supp. 3d at 203 
8 For example, when asked specifically "whether Mr. Clark used personal devices to communicate government 
business," you responded as follows: "Given the lack of specificity of the question, we can do no more than allude 
to the privileges that arc asserted in the letter, which arc the full panoply of executive, Federal law enforcement, and 
so on, privileges that are in the letter, and plus the reservation that we've made [regarding Cons1itutional rights]." 
When the same specific question was directed to your client, Mr. Clark responded "This has been asked and 
answered."  157 
Mr. Harry MacDouga ld 
Page 5 
In your November 8 letter, you state that your "threshold objection" is not based on 
"purported executive~privilege absolutism" but your contention that the pendency of litigation 
initiated by Mr. Trump regarding production of documents by the National Archives pursuant to 
the Presidential Records Act prevents your client from compliance with a congressional subpoena. 
As a preliminary matter, this is not a valid objection to a subpoena, and the Select Committee is 
not aware of any legal authority (nor have you provided any) that supports this position. 
Moreover, your letter overstates the relationship between the litigation involving 
documents held by the National Archives and the instant matter. The National Archives litigation 
relates to the production of records within the possession of the Archivist pursuant to the 
Presidential Records Act. Mr. Clark is not a party to that litigation and the issues raised are distinct 
from the privilege claims raised by Mr. Clark (to the extent we can discern those claims from your 
prior correspondence). While, in his attempt to prevent the production of documen ts in the 
possession of the Archivist, former President Trump has raised claims of executive privilege 
(something he has not done with respect to Mr. Clark's testimony) directly under the Presidential 
Records Act, that litigation will not address your client's dubious reliance on some undifferentiated 
claims of privilege to avoid testifying in response to a subpoena. 
Indeed, as more fully set forth below, your client's obligations regarding compliance with 
the Select Committee's subpoena are clear: Mr. Clark must appear for his deposition and answer 
the questions of the Select Committee, subject only to particularized objections and privileges he 
might raise in response to specific questions . You have put forward no authority or argument 
requiring a different result. 
Furthermore, your claim that it would be "prudent" for the Select Committee to delay the 
deposition lacks merit. The Select Committee has extremely important work to complete, and your 
client has critical information that will further its investigat ion. While aspects of Mr. Clark's role 
in efforts to press the Department of Justice to advance unsupported allegations of2020 election 
fraud, by Mr. Trump and others, is now known (based mostly on documents and testimony 
provided by his superiors at the Departmen t of Justice), the Select Committee is interested in 
conversations and interactions Mr. Clark had with former President Trump, Members of Congress, 
and others who participated in the promotion of baseless election fraud claims and attempted to 
enlist the Department of Justice in that effort. For example, with whom did Mr. Clark discuss the 
draft letter to state officials he forwarded to Jeffrey Rosen and Richard Donoghue on December 
28, 2020 before drafting or sending that letter? What facts and legal theories informed the 
representations in that letter? What other strategies for delaying the certification of the results of 
the 2020 election did Mr. Clark discuss with others in government or the Trump campaign? Did 
Mr. Clark have involvement with additional efforts to pursue claims of alleged election fraud? 
Where did he receive information regarding those claims, and who else was involved in such 
efforts? These questions are among those that Mr. Clark is uniquely positioned to illuminate.  158 
Mr. Harry MacDougald 
Page 6 
C. Even if Direc-te,I by the Former President to Assert Executive Privilege, Mr. 
Clark's Ch,im of Privilege Would be Tenuous, at Best Even if Directed by the 
Former President to Assert Executive Privilege, Mr. Clark's Claim of Privilege 
Would be Tenuous, (If Best 
Even assuming Mr. Trump had invoked executive privilege with respect to the Select 
Committee's subpoena to Mr. Clark, that privilege does not prohibit access by the Select 
Committee to the information sought from Mr. Clark. This is so for several reasons. 
First, in Nixon v. Administrator of General Services ('"GSA"), 433 U.S. 425, 448-49 
(1977), the Supreme Court made clear that any residual presidential communic ations privilege is 
subordinat e to executive privilege determination s made by the incumbent president. "[l]t is the 
new President [not his predecessor] who has the information and attendant duty of executing the 
laws in the light of current facts and circumstances," and "the primary, if not the exclusive" duty 
of deciding when the need of maintaining confidentiality in communications "outweighs whatever 
public interest or need may reside in disclosure." Dellums v. Powell, 56 I F.2d 242, 247 (D.C. Cir. 
1977). 
Here, neither Mr. Clark nor Mr. Trump currently serve in positions in the United States 
Government. Mr. Trump has not made any effort to contact the Select Committee regarding your 
client's testimony, and he has not sought any injunctive or other relief from a court to prevent his 
testimony. Furthermore, incumbent President Biden and the Department of Justice have weighed 
in regarding subjects about which the Select Committee seeks testimony from Mr. Clark. By 
letter dated July 26, 2021, the Department of Justice reminded Mr. Clark that the Department 
attorneys are generally required to protect non-public information, including information 
that could be subject to various privileges like "'law enforcement, deliberative process, attorney 
work product, attorney-client, and presidential communic ations privileges." After listing those 
protective privileges, however, the Department explicitly authorized Mr. Clark "to provide 
unrestricted testimony to [Congress], irrespective of potential privilege" within the stated scope of 
Congress's investigations.9 See DOJ letter at 3. According to the Department, the 
"extraordinar y events in this matter . present [] an exceptional situation in which the 
congressional need for information outweighs the Executive Branch's interest in maintaining 
confidentiality." Id. at 2. 
Second, many of the Select Committee's questions have nothing to do with 
communications between Mr. Clark and Mr. Trump. For example, the Select Committee seeks 
information from Mr. Clark about his interactions with private citizens, Members of Congress, or 
others outside the White House related to the 2020 election or efforts to overturn its results. Courts 
have made clear that the presidential-communications privilege does not apply to such subjects or 
9 As discussed below, your November 5 lener also suggests that Mr. Clark may be limited in his testimony by the 
attomey•client privilege, the attorney work product doctrine, and corresponding ethical confidentiality concerns. 
You raised ethical considerations again in your Novembe r 8 letter. Those suggestions are addressed below, but it 
is worth emphasizing here that the Department of Justice's July 26 authorization lener addresses those concerns 
as well. It is difficult to sec how Mr. Clark would be required to keep confidentia l the very infomtatio n that 
the Executive and his former agency have authorized him to share, and the D.C. Bar Ethics Opinion you cited, 
#288, actually allows lawyers to produce information to Congress when given the choice between production or 
contempt.  159 
Mr. Harry MacDougald 
Page 7 
communications. See In re Sealed Case (Espy), 121 F.3d at 752 (D.C. Cir. 1997) ("(execut ive] 
privilege should not extend to staff outside the White House in executive branch agencies"); 
Committee on the Judiciary v. Miers, 558 F. Supp. 2d at I 00 (privilege claimants acknowledged 
that executive privilege applies only to "a very small cadre of senior advisors"). 
Third, even with respect to Select Commiuee inquiries that involve Mr. Clark's 
communications with Mr. Trump, executive privilege does not bar Select Committee access to that 
information. Only communications that relate to official government business can be covered 
by the presidential communications privilege. In re Sealed Case (Espy), 121 F.3d at 752 ("the 
privilege only applies to communication s ... in the course of performing their function of advising 
the President on official government matters"); cf Judicial Watch, Inc. v. U.S. Dep'I of Homeland 
Sec., 926 F. Supp. 2d 121, 144-45 (D.D.C. 2013) ("the (attorney-client] privilege does not extend 
to a 'a government attorney's advice on political, strategic, or policy issues, valuable as it may 
[be]"'). Here, it is questionable that Mr. Clark's conduct regarding several subjects of concern to 
the Select Committee related to official government business. For example, Mr. Clark's efforts 
regarding promotin g unsupported election fraud allegations with state officials constituted an 
initiative that Mr. Clark apparently initially kept secret from the Department of Justice and then, 
when revealed, continued to pursue, even after being explicitly instructed to stop.10 
Fourth, even with respect to any subjects of concern that arguably involve official 
government business, the Select Committee's need for this information to investigate the facts and 
circumstances surrounding the horrific January 6 assault on the U.S. Capitol and our democratic 
institutions far outweighs any executive branch interest in maintaining confidentiality. Finally, 
even if there were merit to your position on executive privilege-which there is not-Mr. Clark is 
nonetheless required to appear before the Select Committee and assert Mr. Trump's claims of 
privilege to specific questions asked and specific documents requested. See, e.g., In re Sealed Case 
(Espy), 121 F.3d at 752 ("the presidentia l communications privilege should be construed as 
narrowly as is consistent with ensuring that the confidentiality of the President's decision­
making process is adequately protected"); Holder, 2014 WL 12662665 , at *2 (rejecting a 
"blanket" executive-privilege claim over subpoenaed document s). 
D. Mr. C/llrk's Claim that the Attorney-Client Privilege and Work Protluct Doctrine 
Prevent his Compliance with the Select Committee 's Subpoena Is Equally 
Unavlliling 
You contend, in a single statement on the second page of your November 5 letter, that Mr. 
Clark's compliance with the subpoena is also affected by the attorney- client privilege and the work 
product doctrine. Contrary to your assertion during the limited portion of the deposition in which 
you participated,11 your November 5 letter does not identify the client who could have an interest 
in protecting the confidentiality of communications with Mr. Clark. It is Mr. Clark's burden to do 
so. "It is settled law that the party claiming the privilege bears the burden of proving that the 
10 See. e.g. Senate Judiciary Report at 23. 
11 Speciiically, you were asked by Rep. Raskin, "Who is the attorney, and who is the client that are covered by the 
attorney client privilege being invoked in the leuer?" You responded by stating that "the privilege is set forth in the 
letter" and declining to discuss the matter further during the deposition.  160 
Mr. Harry MacDougald 
Page 8 
communications are protected," and to carry this burden one "must present the underlying facts 
demonstrating the existence of the privilege." In re Lindsey, 148 F.3d I 100, I 106 (1998).12 The 
concluso ry statement of your November 5 letter clearly has not carried this burden. 
Further, as with assertions of other privileges, "[a] blanket assertion of the [attorney client] 
privilege will not suffice." In re Lindsey, 148 F.3d 1100, 1106 (I 998). To the extent you believe a 
privilege applies you must assert it specifically as to communications or documents, providing the 
Select Committee with sufficient information on which to evaluate each contention. You have not 
done so. 
Ill. The Information Sought Is Important to the Select Committee's Investigation 
and is Clearly within the Scope of Authority Delegated Pursuant to House 
Resolution 503 
The documents and testimony sought by the Select Committee from Mr. Clark relate 
directly to the inquiry being conducted by the Select Committee, serve a legitimate legislative 
purpose, are within the scope of the authority expressly delegated to the Select Committee pursuant 
to House Resolution 503, and are not protected from disclosure by any privilege. 
Your November 5 letter asserts a "disconnect between the scope and purpose of the 
Committee's authorizing resolution and the informati on sought from Mr. Clark." November 5 
letter, at 11. That is incorrect. Your letter misstates both the scope and purpose of the Select 
Committee's work as well as the relationship to that work of the documents and information sought 
from Mr. Clark. 
One of the purposes of the Select Committee is: 
To investigate and report upon the facts, circumstances, and causes relating to the January 
6, 2021, domestic terrorist attack upon the United States Capitol Complex ... and relating 
to the interference with the peaceful transfer of power ... as well as the innuencin g factors 
that fomented such an attack on American representative democracy while engaged in a 
constitutional process.13 
To fulfill its responsibility to investigate and report upon "the influencing factors that 
fomented such an attack on American representative democracy," the Select Committee must 
explore the facts and circumstances that led a mob to assault the Capitol and the police officers 
12 Of course, the auorney-client relationship privilege would only apply to those communications that qualify based 
on their substance and over which confidentiality has been maintained. The a11orncy-client "privilege applies only if 
(1) the asserted holder of the privilege is a client; (2) the person to whom the communication was made. is 
acting as a lawyer; (3) the communication relates to a fact of which the attorney was infom1ed (a) by his client (b) 
without the presence of strangers (c) for the purpose of securing primarily either (i) an opinion on law or (ii) legal 
services or (iii) assistance in some legal proceeding, and not (d) for the purpose of com mining a crime or tort; and 
(4) the privilege has been (a) claimed and (b) not waived by the client." In re Sealed Case, 737 F.2d 94, 98-99 
(1984). 
1l H. Res. 503, Section 3(1).  161 
Mr. Harry MacDougald 
Page9 
attempting to protect it, threaten leaders of our government, and disrupt the peaceful transfer of 
power. Chief among the factors that rioters have cited to justify their actions is the belief that the 
2020 election was stolen. 14 Documents and testimony show that Mr. Clark was directly involved 
in efforts to promote this false narrative. See Senate Judiciary Report at 19-27. 
In the October 13, 2021, letter that accompa nied Mr. Clark's subpoena, the Select 
Committee set forth the basis for its determination that the documents and records sought are of 
critical importance to the issues being investigated by the Select Committee. Testimony of senior 
Department of Justice officials before this Committee as well as before the Senate Judiciary 
Committee has revealed efforts by Mr. Clark, along with others in the federal government , to have 
the Department intervene in the electoral processes of various states and to make public 
pronouncements to fuel Mr. Trump's baseless claims of election fraud. The Select Committee 
intends to investigate fully allegations of efforts by elected officials and others within the federal 
government to interfere with the electoral process, disrupt the peaceful transfer of power, and use 
the authorities of the Departme nt of Justice to advance Mr. Trump's personal political objectives. 
IV. The Categorical Nature of Mr. Clark's Refusal to Comply with the Subpoena 
Indicates a Willful Disregard for the Select Committee's Authority 
Mr. Clark's appearance before the Select Committee at which he resisted providing any 
documents or testimony'5 and made no clear or particularized claims of privilege save for general 
references to a letter hand-delivered to the Select Committee as the deposition commenced 
indicates a willful disregard for the Select Committee's authority. When asked by staff counsel to 
discuss the topics on which the Select Committee planned to depose Mr. Clark -many of which 
could have no plausible infringement on any privilege-you and your client instead chose to walk 
out of the deposition. 
There is no legal basis for your client's assertion of privilege in this broad and categorica l 
manner. Your client refused to answer questions about the events of January 6, his comments to 
the press about the events of January 6, when he first met a certain member of Congress, whether 
he had ever interacted with members of Congress, his involvement in discussions regarding 
election procedure in Georgia, how he obtained information relevant to assertions regarding 
alleged election fraud, and whether he used personal devices to conduct official governme nt 
business while he was employed at the Department of Justice. None of these areas of inquiry even 
remotely implicate executive privilege, even if such a privilege had been formally invoked by Mr. 
Trump. 
As such, after considering and analyzing the privileges and arguments asserted in your 
November 5 letter, I overruled your blanket objections to the Committee's subpoena. Based on 
your November 8 letter, it is clear that your client does not intend to abide by my ruling. Be advised 
thal the Select Committee intends to move forward with subpoena enforcement efforts. If, after 
14 See. e.g., They rioted at the Capitol for Trump Now many of those arrested say it's his fault, USA Today, Feb. 10, 
2021; Defense for Some Capitol rioters: election misinformation, Associated Press, May 29, 2021. 
15 Mr. Clark gave a substantive answer 10 a single question, relating to a request for documents from a particular email 
account.  162 
Mr. Harry MacDougald 
Page 10 
considering this letter, Mr. Clark agrees to appear for deposition and fully answer the questions of 
the Select Committee or make particularized assertions of privilege to specific questions posed to 
him, please advise staff counsel immediately. If we do not hear from you by Noon on Friday, 
November 12, 2021, we will assume that you have not changed your posture. 
Sincerely, 
Bennie G. Thompson 
Chairman  163 
EXHIBIT 11  164 
CALDWELL, CAR.LSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
HARRY W W.COOUCALD 
MANAGING PARTNER 
November 12, 2021 
Hon. Bennie G. Thompson, Chairman 
January 6th Select Committee 
U.S. House of Representativ es 
Longworth House Office Building 
Washington, DC 20515 
Dear Representative Thompson: 
This letter and the attached memo constitute my response on behalf of Jeff Clark 
to your letters of November 5 and 9, 2021. This cover letter will summarize that memo. 
Separation of Powers Violations. As we have stated repeatedly, the doctrine of 
executive privilege central to our objections is designed to preserve the separation of 
powers. You inadvertently but powerfully confirmed the validity of our worries about 
the Committee's intrusions into the separation of powers when you were quoted in 
Politico on November 9 saying ''And we11 let the evidence based on what we look at 
determi11e guilt or innocence ."1 But no Congressional committee wields constitution al 
authority to "determine guilt or innocence." And Congress lacks the power to issue or 
enforce subpoenas to carry out such an unlawful and plainly non-legislative purpose. 
1 See Kyle Cheney & Josh Gerstein, Trump Cannot Shield White House. Records from Jan. 6 Committee, Judge 
Rules, Pm.mco, available at h!:t~~i.il".!l...!1Wm.Jfll2!J?1/ t~~tiyjt~c..:..f)l lu.:i: 
ruling-kini;s-520512 .  165 
CALDWELL, CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 12, 2021 
Page2 
Due Process Violations. We have also repeatedly pointed out serious due process 
objections to how the Committee is proceeding as to Mr. Clark, but none of your letters 
deigns to address these problems ·. For example: 
• You claim the authority to rule on our objections to your own Committee's 
questions. Due process forbids anyone acting as the judge of their own case. 
• You have proven the wisdom of that constitutional guardrail by exhibiting an 
unalterably closed mind in judging your own case. On November 5 you wrote 
both that (a) our objections had been overruled but that (b) the underlying 
reasoning would come later (and came November 9)-a real-life case of the 
surrealistic royal decree where the Red Queen in Alice in Wonderland pronounced: 
"sentence first-verdict afterwards." 
• Your letter of November 9 was thus just a series of post hoc 
rationaJizations designed to justify what you had let slip was an outgrowth of your 
already rpade-up mind back on November 5. 
• On November 5 at 4:30 pm, you directed us to appear in person once again at 4 
pm. We lack a time machine, and I was on an airplane when that letter was 
received. And compelled attendance without counsel would breach due process. 
• To the e~tent the Committee is permitted to question Mr. Clark about election­
related matters, he should be able to review all DOJ election-related investigation 
files, which the Committee and DOJ have strangely combined to declare off-limits. 
• Similarly, Mr. Clark has been unfairly denied access to refresh his memory about 
classified analysis of foreign influence on the election that he reviewed while he 
was at DOJ, and which include his personal notes on a classified conversation with 
Director of National Intelligence John Ratcliffe that he had on January 2, 2021. 
• We have not yet been provided with a copy of the transcript of the November 5 
session, though it was promised at that time and you have quoted from it liberally 
in your November 9 letter. 
Proper and Repeated Presidential Instructions Exist to Mr. Clark to Assert 
Executive Privilege. More than once, your letters dispute the sufficiency of President 
Trump's direction to Mr. Clark to assert executive privilege, contending, for example,  166 
CALDWELL, CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 12, 2021 
Page 3 
that President Trump only gave the direction once. While we are unaware of any legal 
authority that would support the peculiar notion that a Presidential directive must be 
repeated to be effective, in this case, the relevant instruction actually was given twice. In 
addition to his August 2 letter, Mr. Collins was quoted by Fox News on August 3 as saying 
President Trump regarded the communications as privileged and that he "hopes the 
former officials will withhold any information from Congress that would fall under 
executive privilege."2 
The Committee simultaneously and by its own admissions (a) seeks to question 
Mr. Clark about his direct communication s with President Trump, but (b) contends that 
Mr. Clark cannot claim executive privilege because he was not part of a "small cadre" 
working directly with the President. The contradictory nature of these positions is plain. 
Mr. Clark Cannot Be Made a Pawn of an Tnter-Branch Squeeze Play. The 
Committee's attempt to force Mr. Clark to testify-before the applicable contours of 
executive privilege are decided, for instance, in Trump v. Thompson-is extremely unfair. 
You are putting him to the Hobson's choice of risking contempt for following the 
instructions to ·assert executive privilege given to him by the President for whom he 
worked, or violating his professional responsibilities to honor those instructions-all 
while leaving Mr. Clark in the posture of having to guess how the courts will draw that 
line. Once struck, the bell of testimony, of course, cannot be un-rung. As esteemed former 
Solicitor General Rex Lee wrote in a notable law review article relied on by another 
former Solicitor General (albeit when he, Ted Olson, was the head of the Office of Legal 
Counsel), "It is neither necessary nor fair to make [the Executive Brach official} the pawn 
in a criminal prosecution in order to achieve judicial resolution of an interbranch 
dispute," especially when there is already an expedited proceeding underway, between 
President Trump and the Committee directly, that will provide at least some guidance on 
the executive privilege questions involving Mr. Clark. Rex Lee, Executive Privilege, 
Congressional Subpoena Power, and Judicial Review: Three Branches1 Three Powers, and Some 
Relationships, 1978 B.Y.U. L. REV. 231,239. See generally 8 Op. OLC 101 (1984). 
2 Tyler Olson, Trump Foreshadows Executive Privilege Fight in Election Investigation s, But Won't Try to Block 
Testimony Yet (Aug. 3, 2021), available at http...s..:~w -foxnew~.p.!lli.tici-itn 1ri~e~_&nli.Y.e,:}"!I.i.YiJe.r,-"' .: 
~li>~ti_Q!.~:.i .QY.e~~~JiQD~nfil:lililck!.Pstimony.  167 
CALDWELL, CAR.LSON. 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 12, 2021 
Page4 
DO J's July 26, 2021 Letter Is Internally Contradictory. Your letters place great (as 
well as misplaced) weight on DO)'s July 26 letter to Mr. Clark. Under certain conditions, 
this letter purported to waive executive privilege for Mr. Clark's direct communications 
with President Trump, while asserting law enforcement privilege to conceal, most 
remarkably, any investigations (or lack thereof) underway while he was there, which 
would necessarily include any inquiries delving into election irregularities in particular. 
Executive privilege exists to serve the Republic, not any one President, and cannot be so 
nakedly contorted to serve the current Administration's political grievances against the 
former President. Most ironically, the DOJ letter zealously guards and refuses to waive 
the Department's prerogatives to avoid public disclosures because that could chill candid 
discussions inside DOJ but cavalierly disregards the very same concern as it applies to 
the President having candid discussions with his advisors, even though the presidential 
communications privilege is of a constitutionally higher order than a DOJ intramural law 
enforcement privilege. The logical contradictions in these positions are glaring. 
Mr. Clark Is an Irrelevant, or at Best Marginal, Witness In Light of the 
Committee's Limited Charter. The Committee's investigative jurisdiction over the events 
of January 6 does not extend to the information sought from Mr. Clark regarding the 
election or his interactions with the former President. 
• Mr. Clark had zero involvement in the events of January 6th; 
• Mr. Clark had no authority over any law enforcement function relevant to January 
6th; 
• There is no demonstrably critical need for Mr. Clark's testimony regarding either 
January 6th itseJf or internal deliberations as to the election (which is a different 
topic), especially given the testimony previously given by other DO) officials; 
• The Committee's theory of relevance with respect to Mr. Clark does not make any 
sense. His confidential and privileged deliberations regarding the election were 
totally unknown to anyone in the Capitol crowd or the public at large at the time 
of January 6. Therefore, Mr, Clark's legal advice could not possibly have 
contributed to the opinions of anyone amongst the January 6th protesters toward 
the election, and so could not have any causal connection whatsoever to the tragic 
disturbance of good order on that day.  168 
CALDWELL, CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 12, 2021 
Pages 
• The baying after Mr. Clark based on such an incoherent theory of relevance stands 
in stark contrast to the Committee's studious disinterest in one Mr. Ray Epps, who 
is on video recorded on January 5 and 6th repeatedly inciting and whipping up 
protesters to "enter the Capitol" on January 6. Your colleague Representative 
Massie has called for answers on this issue, which would clearly be part of the mix 
if the Committee's membership were balanced. Hounding Mr. Clark, who had 
nothing to do with January 6, while leaving Mr. Epps entirely undisturbed, when 
the latter was obviously up to his neck in the events of that day, requires 
explanation and confirms that Mr. Clark is being deployed as a prop in the public­
private partnership of narrative-rnongering.3 
The Committee Has Repeatedly Mischaracterized Our Legal Positions. The 
Committee, both in person and in writing, has repeatedly mischaracterized our position 
to lay an inaccurate predicate for contempt. We have not asserted an absolute or blanket 
refusal to answer. We have instead pleaded with the Committee that it is only prudent 
and fair to await the final merits resolution of litigation, including but not limited to 
Trump v Thompson, so that we will all know where things stand on executive privilege.4 
The Committee Is Violating the Governing Congressional Rules. Defects in the 
Committee's organization render it incapable of complying with the Rules of the House 
with respect to depositions. As Rep. Banks and others stated in THE FEDERALIST on 
3 The Committee has emphasized concern about threats to the safety of its members and to the Capitol 
building. We respect those concerns and agree that they should be taken very seriously and have 
underscored, as you know, that new legislation has already been passed to address such concerns. But you 
should be aware that the constancy of improper, anonymous, and, in many instances, inaccurate leaks 
against Mr. Clark in the media poses very real safety concerns for him as well. Over the Summer and into 
the Fall, Mr. Clark repeatedly received threatening messages at a place of employment, leading the 
employer to make several reports to the FBI. And the peaks and valleys of those threats correspond very 
closely in time with media hit pieces, especially when they are broadcast on television. 
4 Relatedly, you have wrongly claimed that we "abrupt[Iy]" left the November 5 deposition. That is 
inaccurate, as we interacted with Committee for about 90 minutes and also patiently accommodated 
requests for the Select Committee to conduct sidebars with itself during which we were instructed to leave 
the room. And most importantly, we left only after our respective legal positions had been hashed and 
rehashed for the fifth or sixth time, constituting badgering or harassment of the witness.  169 
CALDWELL, CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH , LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 12, 2021 
Page 6 
November 9, 2021,5 the nominal members of the minority party on the Committee were 
appointed by the Speaker, not the Minority Leader, and therefore constitute 
representatives of the majority, not the minority. The Minority Leader's appointments to 
the Committee were refused by the Speaker. As a result, there is no ranking minority 
member to be consulted on the issuance of subpoenas, and no minority staff to participate 
in examining witnesses or conducting the Committee's investigation. Consequently, the 
Committee's subpoena to Mr. Clark is invalid under the Rules of the House. 
Conclusion. Finally, we must observe that the Committee's project here appears to 
be an attempt to relitigate the failed second impeachment of former President Trump but 
without following the prescribed constitutional process. To date, Mr. Clark has engaged 
with the Commjttee with patience and in good faith, but the evidence of bias against him 
and improper political agendas mounts by the day. We recognize that the Committee is 
formed exclusively of staunch opponents of former President Trump, but even so, at 
some point the war on Mr. Trump must eventually run its course. 
As we have often stated and reiterate here, we are certainly willing to engage in 
further dialogue over a reduced scope of inquiry, or to consider written questions, or to 
discuss other means of accommodating the inter-branch and cross-presidentia l interests 
that are presently in tension in this matter. 
Respectfully, 
Cald;, Carlso~, E i & lJeLoach, LLP 
1-i 6() J 
Harry . MacDougald 
cc: Jeffrey Bossert Clark 
5 See Mollie Hemingway, J6 Committee Misleadin g Witnesse.s About Republican Staff Pret;,::,u:e, THE FEDERALI ST 
(Nov. 10, 2021), auailable at hll~.iil1!.1clajP.. raJjst.com/'l02 1/ll/10/j6-t.-ommitt~iliilllt~IJP\S~a.b..Q.Ul: 
If'P_y!,)j,"-n:~iUl:p.r,,.><Jl!...,,J.  170 
MEMORANDUM RE: CLARK SUBPOENA 
November 12, 2021 
This Memorandum (or "Memo") responds more fully to Chairman Thompson's 
letters of November 5, 2021 and November 9, 2021 and accompanie s my cover letter of 
November 12 to Chairman Bennie G. Thompson.1 I also incorpor ate by reference the 
points made in my November 8 letter. This Memo is organized so as to respond, roughly 
sequentially, to your points as they were made in your November 5 letter, coupled with 
supplementation regarding your November 9 letter as appropriate: 
1. There is a self-evident problem posed by your November 5 letter. It 
proposed resuming the deposition at 4:00 pm that day, but that letter was not sent until 
4:30 pm-a half-hour in the past at the time your November 5 letter was sent. Given that, 
we also do not understand your assertion that you would rule at 4:00 pm on our 
objections inasmuch as your November 5 letter appears to have already rejected those 
claims.2 This is clear from your November 9 letter, which refers to your November 5 letter 
providing "notice of my rulings on the objections you raised at your deposition on 
November 5," Thompson Letter at 2 (Nov. 9, 2021). This is yet another illustration of the 
"unalterably closed mind" problem that I explained from the airplane during my return 
f1ight to Atlanta on November 5 and my point that you ruling on objections we presented 
using that frame of mind is a violation of due process. See my email to ■■■■ I of 
Nov. 5, 2021, (citing Air Tra11sp. Ass'n of Am. v. Natio11a/ Mediation Bd., 663 F.3d 476 (D.C. 
Cir. 2011)). See also Point 13, infra. And most importantly, nowhere do your November 5 
or 9 letters even reference due process or respond to our arguments in that vein.3 
1 This Memo reminds you and the Committee of the same reservations of rights stated in my November 5, 
2021 letter to you. To economize on words, I will not restate those reservations here. Additionally, you 
cannot assume that any point in your letters not responded to in specific terms are points that we accept. I 
reserve all of Mr. Clark's rights. 
2 Though, of course, we would urge you to reconsider, even now. 
3 We suspect part of the problem here is the Committee's extreme haste. ln addition to the timing problem 
(calling for Mr. Clark to return to a congressional office building at4:00 pm in a letter sent at4:30 pm), page 
6 of your November 9 letter reflects a heading that repeats itself (i.e., heading 11.C).  171 
Memorandum Re: Clark Subpoena 
November 12, 2021 
Page2 
2. Your November 5 letter also indicated that a more detailed l etter would be 
forthcoming, which was the November 9 letter. But we similarly do not see how, before 
that more detailed letter provided all of the legal analysis your staff thought necessary to 
include, you could have been fully informed in ruling on the objections as of 4:00 or even 
4:30 pm last Friday, November 5, given that the November 9 letter was still four days in 
the future. All of this similarly underscores the due process problems with how the 
Committee is proceeding. Taking a step back, I cannot help but observe that the 
chronology of when, exactly, you overruled the objections calls to mind the Queen of 
Hearts' demand in Alice in Wonderland of "Sentence first-verdict afterwards." 
https://word histories.net/2019/07 /14/sentence-first-verd ict-afterwards/. 
3. You assert that "[a]ll the requested documents relate directly to the inquiry 
being conducted by the Select Committee .... " Chairman Thompson Letter, at 1 (Nov. 5, 
2021). We strongly dispute that there is such a direct relationship. Mr. Clark had no 
involvement with the events of January 6th. And, as l noted in my November 5 letter, 
former Acting Attorney General Rosen has already testified to the House that the January 
3, 2021 Oval Office meeting Mr. Clark participated in "did not relate to the planning and 
preparations for the events on January 6th." At best, Mr. Clark is a very tangential witness 
in light of House Resolution 503, which sets up this Committee's function. That point 
alone-together with the point made in my November 8, 2021 letter to you that protective 
legislation for the Capitol has already been passed and additional legislation of that type 
need not await interviewing Mr. Clark-undercuts any claimed urgent or "demonstrably 
critical" need for Mr. Clark's testimony. 
a. Mr. Clark was not a "cause" of a "domestic terrorist attack on the 
Capitol. Compare House Resolution 503, § 3(1). Nor was he in charge of the "preparedness 
and response of the United States Capitol Police and other Federal, State, and local law 
enforcement agencies in the National Capital Region and other instrumentalities of 
government .... " Compare id. Nor did Mr. Clark participate in any January 6 activities at 
the Capitol where some of the individuals involved may have sought to interrupt the 
"peaceful transfer of power." Nor could Mr. Clark's work, which was not publicly 
released while he served in the Trump Administration, be an "influencing factor" leading  172 
Memorandum Re: Clark Subpoena 
November 12, 2021 
Page3 
to a decision by some individuals to go into the Capitol building on January 6. Contra 
Thompson Letter, at 8 & n.13 (Nov. 9, 2021) (citing H. Res. 503, § 3(1)).4 
b. All Mr. Clark knows about "evidence developed by relevant Federal, 
State, and local governmental agencies regarding the facts and circumstances 
surround ing the domestic terrorist attack on the Capitol,'' etc. is what he has read or seen 
in the media or learned by watching some portions of past testimony by other officials on 
those topics, especially to the House Oversight Committee. Compare id.§ 3(2). 
c. The purpose enunciated in House Resolution 503 Section 3(3) is also 
something that does not embrace Mr. Clark. 
d. We note that Section 4(a)(l)(B) of House Resolution 503 references 
"malign foreign influence operations." Mr. Clark has no visibility into that issue as it may 
relate to the events of January 6, 2021. But he did review classified information on 
potential foreign i.nfluence as it bore on the 2020 presidential election. Pursuant to Justice 
Department regulations, he requested that he be allowed to re-review such material, 
including his personal notes on that topic left in the Justice Department Command 
Center. But the Department denied his request, noting that the Committee had told the 
Department that this was not relevant to the Committee's inquiry.s If the Committee has 
4 What appears far more relevant for getting to the bottom of why some individuals went into the Capitol 
Building are the activities of a Mr. Ray Epps, who was caught on video on both January 5 and 6, 2021 urging 
protestors and anyone nearby who would listen, it seems, to "enter the Capitol" on January 6. Yet it is Mr. 
Clark who has been subpoenaed to testify about non-public information based on work subject to various 
Executive Branch, DOJ, and general legal confidentiality protections, while Mr. Epps has not been 
subpoenaed. See, e.g., https://youtu.be/uHn1hZyP fxk Video Gallery, Rep. TI10mas Massie, availnble at 
https:ljmassie.house.gov/v ideos/ (page 2) (last visited Nov. 12, 2021). If the Committee were properly 
constih1ted, see Point 16, infra, the Committee minority could use the Committee's investigators to pursue 
this promising lead evenhanded ly. As former Rep. Henry J. Hyde once memorably said, "The mortal 
enemy of equal justice is a double standard." Impeachment Trial of William Jefferson Clinton, remarks of 
Rep. Henry J. Hyde, available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp­
srv/politics/special/dinton/stories/managers2text020899 .htm. 
5 On October 14, 2021, Kira Antell of the Department of Justice's Office of Legislative Affairs emailed Mr. 
Clark's former counsel, stating as follows:  173 
Memorandum Re: Clark Subpoena 
November 12, 2021 
Page4 
changed its mind and now views the issue of foreign influence in the election to be 
relevant, the Department' s denial of Mr. Clark's request is another denial of due process. 
And, even if the Committee's position that the foreign influence question is irrelevant 
remains unchanged, it is not up to Ms. Antell and/or this Committee to decide what 
materials Mr. Clark needs to refresh his recollection. Mr. Clark, consulting with me as his 
lawyer, should be able to make that determination. Part of due process requires giving 
witnesses the ability to determine how to answer particular lines of questioning; due 
process is not consistent with trying to place entire lines of inquiry beyond question, 
especially where intent is a relevant legal factor. As a result, however one slices it, 
blocking Mr. Clark from accessing the classified material on foreign election interferenc e 
that he previously reviewed is a denial of due process. 
4. We reiterate that Mr. Clark did not state on November 5 that, for all time, 
he would "not answer any of the Select Committee's questions on any subject and would 
not produce any documents," as you assert in your November 5 letter. As I explained in 
my November 5 and November 8 letters, the issue is predominantly one of timing, 
prudence, and fairness in awaiting, at the very least, a final merits outcome of the Trump 
v. Thompson litigation. The mismatch between the written statements of our position and 
the Committee's various erroneous characterizations of our position makes it particularl y 
important for this dialogue to occur in writing. 
5. You argue that the August 2, 2021 letter from Mr. Collins to Mr. Clark does 
not allow executive privilege to apply to Mr. Clark absent a "further instruction[] from 
former President Trump with respect to Mr. Clark's testimony." Chairman Thompson 
Letter, at 2 (emphasi s added). We do not understand why one instruction given in August 
2 is not enough and a "further instruction" would be required. You offer no explanation 
Finally, I wanted to address your question seeking access to materials relating to a 
classified ODNl briefing of Mr. Clark in early January. OLA has spoken to the Select 
Committee and confirmed that the details of this briefing are outside the scope of their 
interest in speaking with Mr. Clark. Beyond confirming with Mr. Clark that the briefing 
occurred, they do not require additional information about that briefing. We believe this 
resolves this question.  174 
Memorandum Re: Clark Subpoena 
November 12, 2021 
Pages 
for that, and there is simply no support for that view in the text of the letter. The August 
2 letter speaks for itself. 
And, lest there be any doubt, a later interview does actually constitute a second 
instruction because Mr. Collins later stated that he "hopes the former officials will 
withhold any information from Congress that would fall under executive privilege" and 
that "'I would hope they would honor that,' Collins said when asked whether Rosen and 
the other officials [clearly including Mr. Clark] should withhold certain deliberations 
from Congress. 'The former president still believes those are privileged communications 
that are covered under executive privilege"'6 
If the Committee wishes to contest our plain-text reading of that letter and Mr. 
Collins' related statements to the media, it can consult with former President Trump's 
lawyers on that point, though we should be included in any such process- it should not 
be ex parte. You also assert that our position is based on suppositions about former 
President Trump's position. Again, that is obviously not the case. Our position is based 
on the text of the August 2 letter and Mr. Collins' amplification of that letter to the media. 
Your interpretation of the August 2 letter is inconsistent both with the letter itself and Mr. 
Collins' interpretation of his own letter. 
6. Relatedly, you argue in the November 9 letter that Mr. Clark should testify 
because, inter afia, Messrs. Rosen and Donoghue testified based on a July 26, 2021 letter 
they (along with Mr. Clark) all received at roughly the same time. See Thompson Letter 
at 1 n.2 (Nov. 9). Especially after the August 3 comments were made by Mr. Collins to the 
media, we are at a loss to explain why others at DOJ were anxious to testify. Part of the 
answer may appear in a story in the New York Times, which states as follows: 
Mr. Rosen has spent much of the year in discussions with the Justice 
Department over what information he could provide to investigators, given 
6 Tyler Olson, Tntmp Foreshadows Exewtive Privilege Fight in Election l11vestigntio11s, But Won't Try to Block 
Testimony Yet (Aug. 3, 2021), available nt https://www.foxnews.com/politics/ trump-exec utive-privilege­
election-investigations-wo nt-block-testimony . Of course, as the Committee knows, President Trump 
decided in the Fall-after the Collins letter dated August 2 and Mr. Collins' statement s to the media 
reported on August 3, that he would indeed go to court.  175 
Memorandum Re: Clark Subpoena 
November 12, 2021 
Page6 
that decision-making conversations between administration officials are 
usually kept confidential. 
Douglas A. Collins, a lawyer for Mr. Trump, said last week that the former 
president would not seek to bar former Justice Department officials from 
speaking with investigators. But Mr. Collins said he might take some 
undisclosed legal action if congressional investigators sought "privileged 
information."[?] 
Mr. Rosen quickly scheduled interviews with congressional investigators 
to get as much of his version of events on the record before any players 
could ask tile courts to block the proceediugs , according to two people 
familiar with those discussions who are not authorized to speak about 
continuing investigations. 
Katie Benner, Former Acting Attorney General Testifies About Trump's Efforts to Subvert 
£/ectio11, New York Times (Aug. 7, 2021), nvailnble at 
https://www. nytimes.com/2021/08/07/us/po litics/jeffrey-rosen-trump-e lection.html 
(emphasis added). Mr. Clark has acted, we believe, more consonant with the President's 
instructions as conveyed via Mr. Collins to Mr. Clark and the others. Thus, we do not 
view it as consistent with Mr. Clark's duties as a lawyer and former government official 
to make "quick[]" disclosure decisions on his own before courts rule on all relevant legal 
disputes.8 
7. As explained in my November 8 letter and above, l do not agree that Mr. 
Clark has invoked "blanket testimonial immunity." See also Thompson Letter at 4 (Nov. 
7 This is a misleading characterization of what the text of the August 2 letter says. It appears designed to 
convey to the New York Times' readers that (a) former President Trump was not asserting privilege and was 
greenUghting testimony; and (b) former President Trump's future condition was vague. Neither is 
accurate-and, as we have repeatedly explained, the letter clearly invokes privilege and its condition was 
plainly triggered by this Committee's post-August 2 actions. 
8 TI1is is also as good a juncture as any to note that one feature of the real story here should be to ask why 
so many anonymous leaks keep occurring -leaks that violate Executive Branch confidentiality of various 
stripes.  176 
Memorandum Re: Clark Subpoena 
November 12, 2021 
Page7 
9, 2021) (referencing "absolute testimonial immunity"). For the sake of economy, I would 
refer you to the November 8 letter's points about the issue of timing, prudence, and 
fairness re Trump v. Thompson (now on interlocutory, not final merits appeal) and our 
continuing invitation to negotiate a narrower scope for potential testimony. Consider as 
well entering negotiations with us on written questions that could be confidentia lly 
propounded to Mr. Clark for our consideration, as opposed to another live session. 
We remind you that Mr. Clark's livelihood has been threatened by "cancel culture" 
and that he also has a pressing family matter in the Philadelphia area to attend to that he 
has been holding off on, so proceeding via writing would be appreciated in light of the 
fact that two weeks of Mr. Clark's extension request were denied with no real 
explanation. Mr. Clark is no longer a government employee, where interfacing with 
Congress in some instances would have been part of his job duties. As a private citizen, 
the Committee should make some reasonable accommodation to Mr. Clark's 
circumstances, especially when his testimony is at best tangential to January 6 and is 
certainly not urgent in light of the prior passage of protective legislation. 
8. Relatedly, your November 9 letter asserts that privilege assertions must be 
on a document-by-document basis. See Thompson Letter at 2 & 7 (Nov. 9, 2021) (asserting 
this is what "the law requires." But just yesterday, a New York Times story came out 
indicating that a different legal position is colorable. That story reports as follows: 
"During arguments last week, [Judge Chutkan] rejected a suggestion by a lawyer for Mr. 
Trump that she examine each document before deciding whether executive privilege 
applied." Charlie Savage, Swift Ruling Tests Trump's Tactic of Running Out the Clock, New 
York Times (Nov. 10, 2021), available at 
https:ljwww.ny times.com/2021/11/10/us/politics/swift-ruling-tests-trump-delay­
tactic.html.9 The Committee cannot urge on us (or benefit from) an approach by the 
courts based on rejecting use of a document-by-document approach, while arguing here 
that it is incumbent on us to use only a document-by-document approach. Lndeed, such 
an internally inconsistent position could trigger estoppel. 
9 Of course, we do not agree that President Trump's lawyers are trying to achieve strategic delay in Trump 
v. Thompson.  177 
Memorandum Re: Clark Subpoena 
November 12, 2021 
Page8 
9. You refer to the July 26, 2021 letter sent to Mr. Clark by the Justice 
Department. See Chairman Thompson Letter at 2 n.3 (Nov. 5, 2021). We do not think that 
letter supports your position, for multiple reasons, but for now it should suffice to point 
out that that letter is curiously vehement that Mr. Clark not disclose the Department's 
"investigations and prosecutions ongoing while {Mr. Clark] served in the Department," 
because if it were known that such "deliberations would become subject to Congressional 
challenge and scrutiny, [the Department] would face a grave danger that [Department 
lawyers) would be chilled from providing the candid and independent analysis essential 
to just and effective law enforcement." Weinsheimer Letter at 3 (July 26, 2021). 
DOj's rationale of avoiding the chilling of candid advice is, of course, one of the 
core purposes of the executive privilege, which is clearly rooted in the separation of 
powers, a structural constitutional principle that outranks the mere policy concerns of 
one department of the federal government. Most importantly, what DO] has done in 
the July 26 letter is strongly endorse 011 of our maiu arguments. 10 The Department's 
version of executive privilege, however, seems carefully molded to achieve political 
objectives rather than doctrinal coherence: it would purportedly shield whatever can be 
smuggled under the skirt of "ongoing investigations and prosecutions," while totally 
exposing advice given directly to former President Trump, as well as internal 
deliberations leading up to such advice, even if they were based on such investigations. 
Respectfully, the internal contradiction of that position is obvious and disabling. It also 
makes little sense to imagine, as the July 26 DO) letter does, that DO)'s departmental 
privilege is superior to the brand of executive privilege attending to direct presidential 
communications and-applying the same method of innuendo the Committee is using in 
the press-causes one to ask: what does DOJ have to hide? 
Even if the Committee were able to somehow properly establish that such election 
matters fall into Resolution 503's charter (something we think it cannot), then by parity 
of reasoning and as an element of due process Mr. Clark should be able to review all of 
10 Alternatively, because the Justice Department is part of the unitary Executive and reports to the 
President, the concern the Department points out here as to its own investigations is just a part of the 
umbrella concept of the executive privilege. Either way, the two parts of DOj's letter are at war with one 
another.  178 
Memorandum Re: Clark Subpoena 
November 12, 2021 
Page9 
the election-related investigative files of the Department, particularly since the asserted 
results of those inquiries were an explicit premise of the advice that others gave to 
President Trump, according to their testimony. In all events, however, it is clear that 
proceeding on the basis of such an incoherent version of executive privilege in the manner 
the July 26 letter proposes would be fundamentally unfair and thus deny Mr. Clark due 
process. It would tie one arm behind his back. 
10. Note as well that your November 9 letter admits there is overlap between 
that litigation and Mr. Clark's testimony.'11 But your letter further contends that Mr. Clark 
is only entitled to assert executive privilege as to the documents and testimony to which 
it applies. The Committee's position thus assumes the point in question. And Trump v. 
Thompson, which may be just the first of multiple cases in this area, is not yet even 
concluded, 12 so neither we nor the Committee knows the precise contours of executive 
privilege in this matter. Given this uncertaint y and Mr. Clark's competing duties as a 
witness on the one hand and as a lawyer ethically obligated to protect the privileges 
asserted by former President Trump on the other, it is grossly unfair to require him to 
guess now where that line will ultimately be drawn, on pain of civil or criminal contempt 
if he is over-inclusive in asserting the privilege, and a violation of the bar rules if he is 
under-inclusive. You assert that there is no authority supporting awaiting the outcome of 
related judicial review proceedings, see Chairman Thompson Letter at 5 (Nov. 9, 2021). 
But we are hardly the first to note the unfairness of the dilemma you are imposing on Mr. 
Clark: 
By wielding the cudgel of criminal contempt, however, Congress seeks to 
invoke the power of the third branch, not to resolve a dispute between the 
Executive and Legislative Branches and to obtain the documents it claims it 
needs, but to punish the Executive, indeed to punish the official who carried 
11 Your November 9 letter merely quibbles about the extent of the overlap. See Thompson Letter, at 5 (Nov. 
9, 2021) ("your letter overstates the relationship between the litigation involving documents held by the 
National Archives and the instant matter.") . 
12 I also specifically alert you here that I am aware that Trump v. Tliompso11 may not result in a final merits 
resolution of the underlying privilege dispute.  179 
Memorandum Re: Clark Subpoena 
November 12, 2021 
Page 10 
out the President's constitutionally authorized commands, for asserting a 
constitutional privilege. 
8 Op. OLC 101, 139 (1984). This passage, in turn, cited a law review article by former 
Solicitor General Rex Lee as follows: 
[W]hen the only alleged criminal conduct of the putative defendant consists 
of obedience to an assertion of executive privilege by the President from 
whom the defendant' s governmental authority derives, the defendant is not 
really being prosecuted for conduct of his own. He is a defendant only 
because his prosecution is one way of bringing before the courts a dispute 
between the President and the Congress. It is neither necessary nor fair to 
make [the Executive Brach official] the pawn in a criminal prosecution in 
order to achieve judicial resolution of an i.nterbranch dispute, at least where 
there is an alternative means for vindicating congressiona l investigative 
interests and for getting the legal issues into court. 
Id. at 139, n. 39, citing Lee, Executive Privilege, Congressional Subpoena Power, and Judicial 
Review: Three Branches, Three Powers, and Some Relationships, 1978 B.Y.U. L. REV. 231, 239. 
This is precisely the unfair trap in which Mr. Clark finds himself. 
Also relevant to the hazard of assuming the eventual outcome of the Trump v. 
Thompson litigation, the Executive Branch has long taken the position that executive 
privilege applies even where the President was not directly involved in the 
communications and document s in question. The history of that position is set forth in 8 
Op. OLC 101 (1984) which involved the assertion of executive privilege by the 
Administrator of the EPA as instructed by the President. The Department of Justice 
confirmed that executive privilege applied. Based on executive privilege, documents and 
communications between EPA enforcement staff and DOJ's Environment and Natural 
Resources Division were withheld from Congress. The OLC opinion not only affirmed 
the propriety of the executive privilege claim, it also declined to prosecute any criminal 
contempt of Congress. "We believe that the Department' s long-standing position that the 
contempt of Congress statute does not apply to executive officials who assert Presidential 
claims of executive privilege is sound, and we concur with it." Id. at 129. "[T]he separation 
of powers principle s that underlie the doctrine of executive privilege also would preclude  180 
Memorandum Re: Clark Subpoena 
November 12, 2021 
Page 11 
application of the contempt of Congress statute to punish officials for aiding the President 
in asserting his constitutional privilege." Id. at 134. Thus, the idea that executive privilege 
is limited to officials like former White House Counsels Donald McGahan or Harriet 
Miers has no foundation in the law or history of execuctive privilege. 
11. Your November 5 letter also asserts that Mr. Clark was not among the 
"small cadre of senior advisors" to former President Trump. See Chairman Thompson 
Letter at 3. Perhaps if this inquiry involved Mr. Clark's work in defending, say, the 
Affordable Clean Energy rule issued by EPA during the Trump Administration, Mr. 
Clark might not be standing on executive privilege. But Mr. Clark had conversations 
directly with President Trump that the subpoena indicates the Committee is interested in 
penetrating into. See Thompson Letter, at 5 (Nov. 9, 2021) (Committee admitting that "the 
Select Committee is interested in conversations and interactions Mr. Clark had with 
former President Trump"). 
The "small cadre" concept, even assuming its validity, has to be interpreted 
functionally. It cannot mean that anything a White House official, who is close on a paper 
org chart to the President, advises is privileged but that the advice of any official situated 
in an Executive Branch department, even if given directly to the President, is not 
privileged. Moreover, as noted, this "small cadre" concept is contrary to the Department 
of Justice's long-standing position that the privilege applies much more broadly to 
executive branch officials even in the absence of any direct involvement by or 
communication with the President. See 8 Op. OLC 101 (1984). The concept advanced in 
your letter would hamstring the President's constitutional effectiveness, especially as 
applied to his high-ranking officials who are Senate-confirmed. The President, in other 
words, should not be confined to hosting confidential conversations only with those 
advisors who physically work at the White House. Discharge of the President's Article fl 
duties to take care that the laws are faithfully executed may sometimes, and at the 
President's sole discretion, require consulting with a wide variety of department, agency, 
board, etc. officials. 
12. On page 3 of your November 5 letter, you again attempt to mischaracterize 
our position as "categorical" or "blanket." You did not attend last Friday's session and so 
perhaps you were misinformed on this point. But my November 5 letter, our statements 
at the session that same day, and my November 8 letter were not categorical. Our point,  181 
Memorandum Re: Clark Subpoena 
November 12, 2021 
Page 12 
again, which seems to have been missed, is that timing is a critical consideration here as 
a threshold matter. There is no reason to put Mr. Clark (and me, as his lawyer, frankly) 
at risk of guessing wrong about how matters like the Trump v. Thompson litigation will 
come out. We have not heard any rationale from this Committee's lawyers or members 
who attended Friday's session as to why that is not a prudent way to proceed. Obviously, 
once Mr. Clark answers questions on the substance of his presidential conversations and 
his related actions at the Department, he cannot un-testify if the Trump v. Thompson case 
or other litigation ultimately holds that the invocation of the privilege is proper in whole 
orin part. 
13. Respectfully, your November 5 letter appears to cast in concrete terms the 
due process problem by stating that the "deposition will resume at 4:00 pm this 
afternoon,[13] at which time I will formally reject your claims of privilege." Chairman 
Thompson Letter at 4 (Nov. 5) (emphasi s added). That inherently shows (a) an 
"unalterably closed mind," especially when you were not a percipient participant in 
Friday's session and (b) renders surplusage the November 9 letter providing fuller 
responses. ln light of this sequence of events, it is clear that your November 9 letter lays 
out a series of post hoc rationalizations that crystallize the point that your mind was 
already made up as of at least 4:30 pm on Friday November 5 when your letter was 
transmitted to me. Finally, (c) you have not provided any response to my point from the 
airplane last Friday that you ruling on objections to your own questions is itself a 
violation of due process. 
14. I also request, with respect, that you should respond to our objection based 
on Plaut v. Spendthrift Farm, 514 U.S. 211 (1995), that Congress cannot apply law to fact 
without unconstitutionall y intruding into the judicial sphere. Under the Constitution, 
the Executive Branch, in essence, proposes violations of law to the Judicial Branch and 
then the latter branch disposes of such disputes. But Congress's role in that process is 
neither to propose nor dispose in that process. lnstead, Congress is only designed to 
debate and pass new legislation or not. 
13 Again, this was a time period 30 minutes before I received your letter from- ·  182 
Memorandum Re: Clark Subpoena 
November 12, 2021 
Page 13 
Your public statements confirm a confusion about how this basic constitutional 
structure functions. Commenting on Judge Chutkan's November 9, 2021 ruling in Trump 
v. Thompson, you are quoted in Politico as saying: "If we have access to the records, they'll 
speak for themselves. So we look forward, as a committee, to getting it. And we'll let the 
evidence based 011 what we look at determine guilt or imzoceuce ."14 (emphasis added). 
Obviously, legislative committees can never have any valid legislative or constitutional 
purpose in determining guilt or innocence, and therefore may not conduct investigations 
or issue subpoenas to achieve such flagrantly unconstitutional purposes. Additionally, it 
is not even proper for the Legislative Branch to arrogate to itself processes of legal 
discovery in the hopes it can make a later hand-off to the Executive. For instance, 
Congress cannot circumvent the Fourth Amendment by proceeding as if that 
constitutiona l constraint applies only to the Executive Branch. The Constitution binds all 
three branches of government and all must take an oath to be bound by and support the 
Constitution. See U.S. Const., art. VI ("The Senators and Representatives before 
mentioned ... shall be bound by Oath or Affirmation, to support this Constitution .... "). 
15. You assert that under the circumstances, Mr. Clark is "willfull[y]" not 
complying with the subpoena. Thompson Letter of Nov. 5 at p. 4; see also Thompson 
Letter of Nov. 9, at pp. 9-10. That is not the case. We seek to continue the dialogue about 
how to secure appropriately cabined testimony from Mr. Clark at the appropriate time 
and framed with due regard for all of necessary constitutional or other legal and ethical 
guardrails. 
16. It should also be noted that the Committee's subpoena to Mr. Clark does 
not comply with the relevant Rules of the House. The minority party, through the 
governing congressional processes, must be represented on the Committee and 
participate in the issuance of subpoenas and the examination of witnesses. There are no 
members of the Committee who were appointed by the Minority Leader. The persons 
selected by the Minority Leader were refused by the Speaker and are not allowed to 
participate in the Committee's proceedings. Instead, the Speaker selected two nominal 
14 Kyle Cheney & Josh Gerstein, Trump Cannot Shield White House Records from Jnn. 6 Committee, Judge Rules, 
POLITICO, availnble at https://www.po litico.com/news/2021/11 /09/trump-executive-privi lege-court-ruling­
kings-520512 .  183 
Memorandum Re: Clark Subpoena 
November 12, 2021 
Page 14 
members of the minority party to serve on the Committee. Their nominal party 
membership does not meet the requirements of the House Rules because they were 
selected and appointed by the Speaker and not the Minority Leader. There is no ranking 
minority member with whom to consult, and no properly constituted minority 
participation in the proceedings. This is a fatal defect in the Committee's subpoena to Mr. 
Clark. We also incorporate by reference the legal arguments made by Representative 
Banks and other attorneys and congressional staff, as reported in The Federalist in the 
article set out in the margin below. 15 In light of the points made i.n that article, when you 
respond to this letter please include a listing of the name and position of everyone 
affiliated with Congress who was present on November 5 in the room or by 
videoconference. 
17. Your November 9 letter suggests that Mr. Clark should have told this 
Committee or others before November 5, 2021 that he intended to stand on President 
Trump's instruction to him through Mr. Collins to assert executive privilege. Mr. Clark 
had no obligation to reveal his discussions with counsel before he arrived last Friday and 
your suggestion particularly ignores my recent entry into the case. We also disagree that 
the other Committees and this Committee are interchangeable. 
18. Your November 9 letter claims that Mr. Clark left "abrupt[ly] on November 
5." See Thompson Letter at 2 (Nov. 9, 2021). You may be misinformed, as that is not 
accurate. We were present for about 90 minutes and we also accommodated two requests 
that we leave the room for a period of time so that the Committee members and staff 
present could confer with one another. And your related assertions about timing in 
getting back to the Committee after we left the building that day ignore that we were 
harassed by the press as we attempted to walk to have a meeting and that other urgent 
client matters arose for me as I scrambled to get to the airport to go back to Atlanta. 
19. I wish to conclude by noting that your November 9 letter ignores my 
November 8 request for a copy of the transcript from November 5. Nor have we received 
any other word on that request since November 9. The silence is particularly troubling in 
15 Mollie Hemingway, ]6 Committ ee Misleading Witnesses About Rep11blicn11 Staff Presence, THE FEDERALIST 
(Nov. 10, 2021), available at https:ljthefedera list.com/2021/11/10/j6-committee-misleading-witnesses-about­
republican-staff-presence/ .  184 
Memorandum Re: Clark Subpoena 
November 12, 2021 
Page 15 
light of the fact that on page 3 (at footnote 4) and page 4 (at footnote 8), as just two 
examples, you appear to be quoting from the transcript. This points out another due 
process problem of the Committee acting to advantage itself over Mr. Clark. Providing 
us with the transcript would also, for instance, make clear that we did not leave 
precipitously. We also offered numerous times to continue the conversation. 
TI1ank you for your continued atlt:ntion tu this matter, Mr. Chairman. I want you 
to be assured that while we disagree with the positions you took in your November 5 and 
9 letters, our legal arguments are rooted in good faith. We are simply attempting to 
vindicate the Constitution , which requires energetic defense of the Executive Branch's 
prerogatives, and make sure that Mr. Oark's rights are protected. 
Respectfully submitted, this 12th day of November , 2021. 
C/tll, Carlson l~ ~d)ougaid 
cc Jeffrey Bossert Clark  185 
EXHIBIT 12  186 
8€1111111€ G. T~~r:J:ti MISSlSSIPl'I 
ZOElOFGAEN,CAI.IFOANIA 
ADAM8.SCHIFF,CAUFDANIA 
PETEAGUILAA,CAUFORIIIIA 
STE.PHANIEIII.MURf'HY .FlORIDA 
JAMIE RASKIN.MARYLAND 
ElAIIIIEG.lUAIA,VIAGJNIA 
LIZCHENEY . WYOMING 
ADAM KINZINGER , ILLINOIS ®nr Jlunbrrb &turntttnt4 Qlongrr•• U.S.HO<J .. ofRep,eoantatlvu 
Wnhing10n,DC20515 
j1nu1,y6tll .llouM1.g0Y 
(202)22S-7800 
&tlrct Qlommitttt to .llnur,rtigatr 14, 3Januaru 614 Attack on 14, lllniteb l,tate• Qlapitol 
November 17, 2021 
Mr. Harry MacDougald 
Caldwell, Carlson, Elliott & DeLoach, LLP -
Dear Mr. MacDougald: 
I write in response to your letter and attached memo dated November 12, 2021 (the 
"November 12 letter"). Your letter fails to include any legal authority justifying your client's 
continuing refusal to provide testimony and document s compelled by the Select Committee's 
October 13, 2021, subpoena. It also reflects a fundamenta l misunderstanding of the House rules 
governing subpoenas and depositions. 
There is no valid legal basis for Mr. Clark's refusal to comply with the subpoena. 
Nonetheless, Mr. Clark has refused to produce any records in response to the subpoena, nor have 
you provided a log detailing the documents withheld and the privileges asserted. Mr. Clark also 
refused to answer any questions at his deposition , save for one question related to a private email 
account. This refusal was despite the fact that the Select Committee asked Mr. Clark a series of 
questions regarding clearly non-privileged topics. Then, as the record reflects, both you and Mr. 
Clark abruptly left the deposition and failed to return as instructed. After your departure, the Select 
Committee described on the record a series of topics about which it wished to ask Mr. Clark but 
was unable to because of your departure. 
The relevant case law holds that a presidential adviser may not refuse to testify in response 
to a congressional subpoena based on claims of executive privilege. At Mr. Clark's deposition, 
staff counsel pointed you to both Commillee on the Judiciary v. Miers, 558 F. Supp. 2d 53, 106 
(D.D.C. 2008), and Committee on the Judiciary v. McGahn, 415 F. Supp. 3d 148, 203 (D.D.C. 
2019), and I cited those cases in each subsequent letter I have sent you. 1 
1 See Letter to H. MacDouga ld, dated November 5, 2021, at 3; Letter to H. MacDouga ld, dated November 9, 2011, 
at 3-4. We have also repeatedly called your attention to Committee on Oversight & Gov't Reform v. Holder, No. 12· 
cv. \332, 2014 WL 12662665, at *2 (D.D.C. Aug. 20, 2014), which rejected a "blanket" executive.pr ivilege claim 
over subpoenaed documents. You have likewise ignored this case without any explanation. And indeed, in my 
November 9 letter, I pointed out "Nowhere in your l2•page [November 5] letter do you address the court decisions 
that clearly hold that even close advisers to a president (which Mr. Clark was not) may refuse to answer questions 
based on broad and undifferentiated privilege assertions."  187 
Mr. Harry MacDougald 
Page 2 
Your November 12 letter can be summarized into four broad categories, each addressed in 
tum: 
Allegation 1: You allege that executive privilege applies to Mr. Clark because of an 
August 2 letter by an attorney for former President Trump.1 Neither Mr. Trump nor his 
representative has communicated any assertion of privilege to the Select Committee (either 
directly or through you) regarding the subpoena to Mr. Clark. The letter from Mr. Trump's counsel 
that you rely upon, issued more than two months prior to any subpoena, plainly states that 
"President Trump will agree not to seek judicial intervention to prevent [Mr. Clark's] testimony. "3 
Declining to seek judicial review to prevent testimony is not an assertion of executive privilege. 
Regardless, as the District Court for the District of Columbia recently held, there is only one 
president at a time, and courts place greater weight on the views of the incumbent president, who 
"is best positioned to evaluate the long-term interests of the executive branch and to balance the 
benefits of disclosure against any effect on the [ ... ] ability of future executive branch advisors to 
provide full and frank advice."4 In this case, neither the current president nor the former president 
has asserted executive privilege over your testimony or any documents you may possess. 
Allegation 2: You claim that you have not made a "blanket" assertion of privilege. 5 Even 
assuming any executive privilege applies here-and we maintain that it does not for the multitude 
of reasons previously explained-Mr. Clark still has a duty to comply with the Select Committee's 
subpoena by asserting any privileges on a question-by-question basis. That is the clear holding of 
both the Miers and McGahn cases you have not addressed. With respect to document s, Mr. Clark 
is required to produce all non-privileged documents and provide a privilege log describing the 
legal grounds upon which any documents are withheld.6 
Allegation 3: You allege that Mr. Clark's testimony is irrelevant to the Select 
Committee's charter. 7 The Select Committee's charter, H. Res. 503 (I 17th Congress), states that 
the committee is to "investigate and report upon the facts, circumstances, and causes relating to 
the January 6, 2021, domestic terrorist attack upon the United States Capitol Complex ... and 
relating to the interference with the peaceful transfer of power."8 As I stated in my October 13, 
2021 cover letter transmitting the subpoena, there is credible evidence that Mr. Clark attempted to 
involve the Department of Justice in efforts to interrupt the peaceful transfer of power. 9 You have 
2 Letter from D. Collins to J. Clark, dated August 2, 2021, at 2. 
3/d. 
4 Trump v. Thompson, No. 21-cv-2769 (D.O.C. Nov. 9, 2021), at 13. See also Nixon v. Administratoro/General 
Services, 433 U.S. 425 449 (1977): "[l]t must be presumed that the incumbent President is vitally concerned with 
and in the best position to assess the present and future needs of the Executive Branch, and to support invocation of 
the privilege accordingly." 
5 Letter from H. MacDougald to Chairman Thompson, dated Novembe r 12, 2021, at 5. 
6 Holder, 2014 WL 12662665, at *2. 
7 Letter from H. MacDougald to Chairman Thompson , dated November 12, 2021, at 4-5. 
8 Section 3( I), H. Res. 503 ( 117th Cong.), as adopted on June 30, 2021. 
9 Letter from Chairman Thompson to J. Clark, dated October 13, 2021, at 1. See also "Subverting Justice: How the 
Former President and His Allies Pressured OOJ to Overturn the 2020 Election," Senate Committee on the Judiciary , 
(Oct. 7, 2021), available at: 
https://www.judiciary.senate.gov /imo/mcdia/doc /lnterim%20Staf1%20Report%20F 1NAL.pdf.  188 
Mr. Harry MacDougald 
Page 3 
provided no legal authority-because none exists-permitt ing Mr. Clark to refuse to comply with 
a congressiona l subpoena simply because he has a different view of what information is important 
to Congress. 
Allegation 4: You allege that the Select Committee has violated House rules and 
deposition procedures. With respect to the claims regarding deposition procedures, 10 you received 
notice both during and after the deposition regarding the reconvening of the deposition later that 
afternoon; 11 and House rules specifically empower the Chair to rule on objections either in real 
time or at a subsequent time. 12 The authority for committees to rule on witness objections has been 
affirmed by Supreme Court case law.13 Your claims regarding the Select Committee's subpoena 
authority are equally meritless. The Select Committee was properly constituted under section 2(a) 
ofH. Res. 503. As required by H. Res. 503, Members of the Select Committee were selected by 
the Speaker, after '"consultation with the minority leader."14 Neither H. Res. 503 nor the Rules of 
the House of Representatives require the minority party to participate in the Select Committee's 
business or investigation or to have the minority leader's preferred Members participate in the 
Select Committee. There is also no "fatal defect" in the subpoena, which was duly issued pursuant 
to sec. 5(c)(4) of H. Res. 503 and clause 2(m) of rule XI of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives. Mr. Clark's subpoena was issued with the unanimous support of the Select 
Committee Members in accordance with these authorities. As to your request for a transcript of 
the November 5 deposition , 15 I will provide the transcript to date pursuant to House Deposition 
Regulation 8.16 
10 Letter from H. MacDougald to Chairman Thompson, dated November 12, 2021, at 2. 
11 After leaving the deposition at 11 :30 am., you were informed at 12:42 pm. by email from staff counsel that the 
deposition would reconvene at 4:00 p.m. You acknowledged receipt of the notice of the reconvening in an email to 
the same staff counsel at 3:25 pm. on November 5, admitting you were already "in the air on the way back to 
Atlanta." 
12See House Deposition Authority Regulation 7: "When the witness has refused to answer a question to preserve a 
privilege, members or staff may (i) proceed with !he deposition, or(ii) either at that time or at a subsequent time, 
seek a ruling from the Chair either by telephone or otherwise. If the Chair overrules any such objection and thereby 
orders a witness to answer any question to which an objection was lodged, the witness shall be ordered to answer." 
"I 17th Congress Regulations for Use of Deposition Authority ," 167 Cong. Rec. H41 (daily ed., Jan. 4, 2021). 
13 See Quinn v. United States 349 U.S. 155, 165 (1955) (providing that "the [C]ommittee may disallow the 
objection, and thus give the witness the choice of answering or not."). Your memo cites a case wholly unrelated to 
Congress 's investigative or interrogatory authority, Plaut v. Spendthrift Farm, 514 U.S. 211 (1995). In that case, 
Congress had amended the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to require Federal courts to reopen final judgements , 
including those entered prior to the enactment of the amendmen t. But far from the Select Committee engaging in 
any judicial power, the investigation pursuant to H. Res. 503 reflects Congress's Article I legislative authority. As 
the Supreme Court held in McGrain v. Daugherty , 273 U.S. 135, 174 (1927),"the power of inquiry-with process to 
enforce it-is an essential and appropriate auxiliary to the legislative function." The legislative purpose of the Select 
Committee has not only been affirmed by the district court in Trump v. Thompson, but also expressly recognized 
during debate on the House Floor: See 167 Cong. Rec. H5760 (daily ed., Oct. 21, 2021) (remarks of Rep. Jim Banks, 
"Madam Speaker, no one has said that the select committee doesn't have a legislative purpose."). 
14 Speaker Pelosi detailed such consultation and her selection decisions in a July 21, 2021, press release available at 
https://www.spcaker.gov /newsroom /72 l 21-2. 
1s Letter from H. MacDougald to Chairman Thompson , dated November 12, 2021, at 14-15. 
16 House Deposition Authority Regulation 8. "I 17th Congress Regulations for Use of Deposition Authority ," 167 
Cong. Rec. H4 I (daily ed., Jan. 4, 2021 ).  189 
Mr. Harry MacDougald 
Page 4 
As I noted in my November 9 letter, there is no legal basis for your client's assertion of 
privilege in this broad and categorica l manner, and the Select Committee views Mr. Clark's refusal 
to comply with its subpoena as willful disregard for the Select Committee's authority. 17 Given Mr. 
Clark's continued defiance of his obligations under the Select Committee's subpoena, the Select 
Committee will have no choice but to advance subpoena enforcement efforts. 
Sincerely, 
Bennie G. Thompson 
Chairman 
17 Letter from Chainnan Thompson to H. MacDougald , dated Novembe r 9, 2021, at 9.  190 
EXHIBIT 13  191 
CALDWELL, CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH , LLP 
HARRY W. MACOOUCALD 
MANAGING MRTNER ATTORNEYS AT LAW 
November 29, 2021 
Hon. Bennie G. Thompson, Chairman 
January 6th Select Committee 
U.S. House of Representatives 
Longworth House Office Building 
Washington, DC 20515 
Via Email 
LIMITS ON THE COMMITTEE 'S DEPOSITION POWER 
Dear Representative Thompson: 
This Jetter is sent for two reasons: first, to note that based on our research 
regarding congressional powers, we have concluded that the current composition of 
this Committee precludes its use of deposition authority under the Committee's 
authorizing Resolution and the governing House Regulations for Use of Deposition 
Authority; second, lo note that I am nonetheless willing to allow Mr. Clark to testify al a 
public Committee hearing (but not at a closed deposition) on two topics relating 
specifically to the January 6 events (see below) that do not implicate any of the 
privileges previously asserted. 
1. The Committee's Current Composition and Genesis Precludes It from 
Wielding Deposition Authority Under the House's "Regulations on the 
Use of Deposition Authority." 
This Committee's purported use of deposition authority is ultra vires. That is true 
for numerous reasons, which we enumerate below:  192 
CALDWELL. CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH. LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 29, 2021 
Page2 
A. The deposition rules contemplate that the "ranking minority member" of 
the Committee must be consulted before depositions can be taken. See, e.g., Regulations 
for the Use of Deposition Authority, Cong Rec. H41, Rule 2 (Jan. 4, 2021) [hereinafter 
"Deposition Rules") ("Consultation with the ranking minority member shall include 
three days' notice before any deposition is taken"); see also Rules 3, 4, 5, and 9 (also 
requiring consultation with and participation by the "ranking minority member" or 
their designees). 
Similarly, H. Res. 503, § 5(c)(6)-the Resolution creating the January 6 
Committee-requires consultation with the ranking member in order to take a 
deposition: 
(6) (A) The chair of the Select Committee, upon consultation with the 
ranking minority member, may order the taking of depositions, including 
pursuant to subpoena, by a Member or counsel of the Select Committee, in the 
same manner as a standing committee pursuant to section 3(b)(l) of House 
Resolution 8, One Hundred Seventeenth Congress. 
(B) Depositions taken under the authority prescribed in this paragraph shall 
be governed by the procedures submitted by the chair of the Committee on 
Rules for printing in the Congressional Record on January 4, 2021. 
H. Res. 503, § 5(c)(6) (all forms of emphasis added). 
Thus, to take a deposition, you as Committee Chair are expressly and 
unambiguously required by H. Res 503, § 5(c)(6) to consult with the ranking minority 
member and to comply with the procedures specified in the Deposition Rules discussed 
above. 
The first problem is that this Committee not only does not have a ranking 
minority member, it does not even purport to have a ranking minority member. Instead, 
it purports only to have Representative Cheney as a Vice Chair, but even that 
designation is flatly contrary to the Rules of the House. See January 6 Select Committee, 
Chairman Thompson Announces Representative Cheney as Select Committee Vice Chair (Sept.  193 
CALDWELL, CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 29, 2021 
Page 3 
2, 2021), available at h...ttp2:Jljan uarv6th.house.gov/news/press -relea~!;filha irII1fil1_: 
thompson-an nounces-representative-chene)r-5elec t-committee-vice-chair (Attachm ent 
A). The Deposition Rules are silent on Vice Chairs; neither they nor the Committee's 
enabling Resolution can be construed to treat Vice Chairs as if they are equivalent to 
ranking minority members. I 
The Committee, lacking a minority ranking member, thus must take the bitter 
with the sweet. The sweet, in the view of the House's majority party, involves a 
gerrymander of the Committee's membership without the Republican Steering 
Committee's or Conference's participation or consent, and thus avoids the inconvenient 
complications and respect for minority prerogatives that would go along with true 
bipartisanship. Whereas the bitter is that, by proceeding in this manner, the Committee 
loses the ability to make use of deposition authority under H. Res. 503, § 5(c)(6) or the 
Deposition Rules. To do so, the Committee would have to be reconstituted. 
B. Each of the two parties in Congress has rules and procedures governing 
how their committee chairs and ranking minority members are designated. On the 
Republican side, the Conference Rules of the 117th Congress are relevant. Rule 2(d)(2) is 
1 There is also serious controversy over whether Vice Chair Cheney even still qualifies as a Republican. 
The Wyoming Republican party no longer recognizes her as such. See e.g., Associated Press, Wyoming 
Republican Party Stops Recognizin g Liz Cheney as Member, THE GUARDIAN (Nov. 16, 2021), available at 
~~,.lli!Iili~J~:~./2021/novl15/liz-cbene~ll] ing-republie<nJ:Jlart~. 
Speaking for herself, the Chair of the Republican National Committee argues that "she still considers Rep. 
Liz Cheney (R-Wyo.) to be a member of the party after the Wyoming GOP voted to no longer recognize 
the Republican congresswoman." Julia Manchester, McDaniel Says She Still Considers Cheney a Republican 
Despite Wyoming GOP Vote, The Hill (Nov. 18, 2021), available at 
htq.15;//the hill.com/homenews/ho u.c:e/582150-mcdanieJ-says-she-c:ti Jl-considers •chcne:y-a-republican-af ter• 
wyoming-gop-vote [hereinafter "Manchester Article"J. Former Speaker of the House Thomas "Tip" 
O'Neill is perhaps best known for political aphorism contained in the title of his book. See Thomas P. 
O'Neill & Gary Hymel, ALL PoLmcs ls LoCAL: AND OTHER RULES OF THE GAME (1993). And, in that vein, 
even Chair McDaniel acknowledged: "The thing about that everyone should be taking note [of] is that a 
state party is the most grassroots body that the state has. These are people who are running in their 
district committee and they're going to their county convention and they're getting on their state 
committee and they really represent where the party is in their state." Manchester Article.  194 
CALDWELL, CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 29, 2021 
Page4 
a default rule that provides that references to Chairs equate to the Ranking Republican 
Member when the Republican party is in the House's minority, as now. See House GOP, 
Conference Rules of the 11th Congress, available at https:flwww.gop, $ov/conference­
rules-of-the-117th-con gress/ [hereinafter "House GOP Conference Rules"]. And Rule 14 
provides that the Republican Steering Committee nominates its chairs/ranking minority 
members and they must be voted on by the full GOP House Conference. See House 
GOP Conference Rules at Rule 14(a)(l), (b). Such chairs/ranking members need not be 
the Republican member with the longest service on the Committee. See id. 
By rule and the customs, traditions, and precedents of the House, it is the role of 
each party, in line with its own internal processes, to designate committee chairs and 
ranking members and thus that role cannot be usurped by the other party. The only way 
for a ranking Republican minority member to be designated is for the procedure in the 
House GOP Conference Rules to be followed. Representative Cheney thus can only be 
denominated the ranking minority member (which, again, is a pivotal role given how 
H. Res. 503, § S(c)(6) and the Deposition Rules work) if the Republican Steering 
Committee has.nominated her to that role and she is then confirmed by vote of the full 
Republican Conference. 
Representative Cheney was neither nominated for the ranking minority member 
role on this Committee nor voted into that role by the full Republican Conference. It 
appears that she does not carry the title of Ranking Minority Member in silent 
recognition of this very fact. Instead, she carries only the title of Vice Chair, an 
appellation conferred on her solely by you as Chair. See Attachment A, entitled 
"Chainnan Thompson Announces Representative Cheney as Select Committee Vice 
Chair"). And, as you are well aware, the history of this Committee leaves 
Representative Cheney owing her post on this Committee to Speaker Pelosi. See 
Associated Press, Pelosi Appoints Cheney to Jan. 6 Committee, NEW YORK TIMES (July 1, 
2021), available at h.tt(2s: ?"vww.nvtimes.co1n -video:us/politics/100000007846056 /pelg~i­
!,;heney-january-6-committee.html. This makes her, in essence, a Democrat-appointed 
member of the Committee in the first instance and a Democrat-appointed leader acting 
in the capacity as Vice Chair of the Committee as well-a doubly Democrat 
appointment . Indeed, during our November 23, 2021 session at the Longworth House  195 
CALDWELL. CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH. LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G, Thompson 
November 29, 2021 
PageS 
Building to review the draft November 5, 2021 transcript, Mr. Clark also specifically 
asked ■■■■■■ , your Par]iamentarian, to confirm that Vice Chairs can be 
appointed by and be members of the majority party on this Committee and 
con.firmed that was accurate . 
But even Rep. Cheney's appointment as the "Vice Chair" of the Committee is 
legally defective . The definition of a "Vice Chair[s]" under the Rules of the House 
clearly requires they be a member of the majority party. Rule Xl(2)(d) provides in 
relevant part as follows: 
Temporary absence of chair 
(d) A member of the majority party on each standing committee or 
subcommittee thereof shall be designated by the chair of the full committee 
as the vice c/,air of the committee or subcommittee, as the case may be, and 
shall preside during the absence of the chair from any meeting. 
(all forms of emphasis added), This rule is applicable to the January 6 Select Committee 
because (1) Rule X(lO)(b) makes Rule Xl(2)(a) applicable to Select Committees; (2) Rule 
Xl{2)(a) requires the Committee to adopt rules; (3) H. Res. 503 § S(c) specifically states 
that "Rule XI of the Rules of the House of Representatives shall apply to the Select 
Committee except as follows"; and (4) clause 2(d) of Rule XI is not one of the listed 
exceptions. 
Therefore, to the extent she is a member of the minority party, Representative 
Cheney cannot be a "Vice Chair" as that term is used and defined in the Rules of the 
House. Representative Cheney, it seems, is thus neither fish nor fowl. 
Contrary to the Associated Press's suggestion, the law and procedures governing 
this Committee are not a matter of "close enough," like "horseshoes and hand 
grenades ." See Pelosi Appoints Cheney to Jan. 6 Committee, NEW YORI< TIMES ("Ms. 
Cheney's appointment appeared to be an attempt by Democrats to bring a degree of 
bipartisanship to the investigation,") (emphasis added), Representative Cheney cannot 
be considered a Republican appointee to this Committee because she was not appointed  196 
CALDWELL, CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 29, 2021 
Page6 
in accord with Republican processes, and is not a "ranking minority member," and this 
precludes the Committee making use of deposition processes because use of those 
processes requires the presence on the Committee of a ranking minority member. 
C. This problem is a further reflection of the overarching fact that this 
Committee is _misstructured because it was formulated as a political monolith. See 
MacDougald Letter, at 5-6 (Nov. 12, 2021); Memo. Re: Clark Subpoena, at 13-14 (Nov. 12, 
2021); MacDougald Letter, at Att. B (Nov. 8, 2021). Minority Leader McCarthy' s 
designees for this Committee, especially Representatives Banks and Jordan, were 
rejected by the Speaker of the House. See Mike Lillis, Pelosi Rejects Jordan, Banks for Jan. 6 
Committee, THE HILL (July 21, 2021), available at 
hltps://thehil l.con1ill.Qrne news/house/564122 -pelosi-rejects-jordan-banks-for-jan-6-
£9llllTiitte~. We explain in our separate letter, also carrying today's date and addressed 
to procedural and other issues, how our November 5, 2021 letter objections were 
repeatedly misconstrued by the Committee and its lawyers. Related to that set of 
problems for the Committee, we note here that it is hard to imagine that 
Representatives Banks or Jordan would have allowed our November 5 objections to be 
mischaracterized and then ruled on as they were mis-framed, at least not without 
making a strong record objecting to proceeding in such an unlawful fashion.2 
Accordingly, how minority party Members of the Committee, especially the ranking 
minority member leader thereof, come to be designated and whether that process has 
been hijacked by the majority party is a matter of great significance and not a mere 
technicality. 
D. Additionally, under the Deposition Rules, the ranking minority member 
can designate committee counsel to conduct a deposition. Those rules establish a 
balance requirement in that "[o]ne of the committee counsel shall be designated by the 
chair and the other by the ranking minority member per round." Deposition Rules at 
Rule 5. Indeed, Rule 6 specifically states as follows: 
2 As I note in our other letter dated today, we will be responding separately to your November 17, 2021 
letter, which is relevant to these points.  197 
CALDWELL, CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH , LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 29, 2021 
Page7 
Deposition questions shall be propounded in rounds. The length of each 
round shall not exceed 60 minutes per side, and shall provide equal time 
to tire majority and the minority. In each round, the member{s) or 
committee counsel designated by the chair shall ask questions first, and 
the member(s) or committee counsel designated by the ranking minority 
member shall ask questions second. 
Deposition Rules at Rule 6. This scrupulously ensures balance between the majority and 
minority lawyers in their role of propounding deposition questions. Yet, there is no 
minority counsel for this Committee that has been properly designated by the ranking 
minority member, because the Committee lacks a ranking minority member for the 
reasons explained above. 
E. Relatedly, we note that the brief instances where ostensible 
minority counsel, participated in the November 5 proceedings (i.e., the deposition itself, 
and the sessions held after Mr. Clark and I departed that day) reinforce that these 
proceedings are not being conducted in true bipartisan fashion. - spoke when 
we were present only to urge us not to leave the deposition when it became 
unproductive in light of the fact that the Committee and staff had not yet fully digested 
my November 5 letter. See Dr. Tr. at 37:10-13,3 Nor did he push back on a single point 
made or position taken by any majority party Member of the Committee or 
majority investigative counsel. All of this is consistent with Representative Banks' view 
of■■■■ participation.• And it also appears - declined to state anything 
for the record in the first session held outside of our presence on November 5, let alone 
3 All citations to the Draft Transcript (Dr. Tr.) are to the version Mr. Clark reviewed on November 23, 
2021 al the Longworth House Office Building and that I simultaneously reviewed, connected to Mr. Clark 
by Webex, from an Atlanta federal building. 
4 See Mollie Hemingway, ]6 Committee Misleading Witnesses About Republican Staff Presence (Nov. 10, 2021) 
(arguing that- and Representat ive Cheney, in the context of this Committee's operations, both 
work for the Democrat Party and that according to Representative Banks, at least some witnesses are 
being misled "about the motives and the position of the person questioning them."), available at 
hllps:Uthefedera li~t.com/2021/11/10fj6-commiHes:-mi~icading-witocsws-abou t-repuhUr:m-staff-pr:es:ence/ 
(Attachment B), incorporated by refere11ce into Memo. Re: Clark Subpoena, at 14 & n.15 (Nov. 12, 2021).  198 
CALDWELL, CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH. LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 29, 2021 
Page8 
anything that would call in question the majority's January 6 narratives, or whether the 
Committee is proceeding in conformity with the House Rules and its own enabling 
Resolution. See id. at 44:24.s 
None of these points are designed to impugn - personally, especially 
because he and Mr. Clark were once colleagues together in private practice and in the 
Bush Administration.6 But, as the design of the Appointments Clause of the United 
States Constitution recognizes , loyalty flows structurally from the authority that makes 
any given appointment and can terminate it,7 and here it is clear that - was 
appointed by you as Chair of the Committee, Representative Thompson. Accordingly, 
- is here serving your interests and those of your political party, not those of 
the minority party. See January 6 Select Committee, Thompson & Cheney Announce Senior 
Investigative Counsel for the Select Committee (Sept. 17, 2021), available at 
https://ja.nwu ,f.th.house. ov news' ress-release 'thom n-chene '-announce-~ni r-
5 We acknowledge there is some lack of clarity in our notes about the relevant person speaking 
(hampered, as we were, by not having a transcript we could take with us on November 23 and by the 
threshold problems encountered on November 23 as we described in our letter to you that evening). If 
page 44, line 24 of the deposition transcript is not - speaking, we apologize for that error 
stemming from our hastily written-up notes. But if that is in error, it would onJy underscore why we 
should be given the opportunity to review the transcript again before it is finalized-preferably by 
receiving a physical copy of the finaJized transcript or, at the very least on that follow-up occasion, not 
being hampered by the threshold problems that created time pressure for our transcript review on 
November 23. 
6 The same is true as to the points made in this letter concerning Representative Cheney's participation 
on the Committee as currently structured-the points are legal in nature, not personal. 
7 See, e.g., Jennifer Nou, Subdelegatirig Powers, 117 COLUM. L. REV. 473,512 (2017) (''The core concern is that 
the President, in whom the Constitution vests the 'executive Power' and who must 'take Care' to 
'faithfully execute' the laws, will lose control of an unelected bureaucracy. To mitigate this possibility, the 
Appointments Clause and other constitutional provisions ensure that the President is able to hire loyalists 
in key positions and fire insubordinates. ") (footnote omitted). Of course, the principal obligation of any 
Executive Branch official is to his Oath to the Constitution as a whole, which Mr. Oark takes very 
seriously. But it is undeniable that the President cannot function properly and ensure that the branch 
functions in a unitary fashion without the ability t·o select his own appointees, subject to Senate 
confirmation for high-ranking officials.  199 
CALDWELL, CARLSON. 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH. LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 29, 2021 
Page9 
investigatjye-counse)-seiect-comm ittee. past appointments by President 
George W. Bush notwithstanding, he was not appointed here pursuant to a consultation 
with Minority Leader McCarthy , el al. or the designated ranking minority member on 
the Committee. Of course, while- served in the Executive Branch more than a 
decade ago, the structure of the Constitution ensured his loyalty to President Bush. But 
as to his service with this Committee, the manner of his appoinhnent ensures his loyalty 
to you as Chair. 
The Rules of the Republican Conference make this point explicit. A member' s 
designation as the ranking Republican member of a Committee comes only through 
nomination by the Steering Committee and election by the Conference. Conference Rule 
14(d)(l) concomitantly requires, among other things, that Republican ranking members 
"ensure that each measure on which the Republican Conference has taken a position is 
managed in accordance with such position on the floor of the House of 
Representatives." 
F. These problems with the absence of both a minority ranking member and 
a counsel chosen by a properly constituted ranking minority member cannot be 
retroactively fixed. They render the November 5 deposition of Mr. Clark ultra vires and 
preclude its use for any follow-on purpose. 
2. Proposal for Testimony on a Limited Topic to the Full Committee in a 
Public Hearing. 
The Committee and its staff have repeated ly mischaracterized our position as 
claiming blanket privilege for Mr. Clark. We have not done so. Our position has instead 
emphasized prudence in awaiting, at the very least, full resolution of Trump v. Thompson 
so that the boundary points for testimony are clearer. evertheless, to serve the interests 
of the historic inter-branch accommodation process related to executive privilege 
disputes, I am willing to offer Mr. Clark's testimony in a public hearing before the full 
Committee (not in a closed-door deposition, including for the reasons given above 
about why use of the Deposition Rules here is ultra vires) on defined topics. See, e.g., 
Dawn Johnsen, Executive Privilege Since United States v. Nixon: Issues of Motivation and 
Accommodation, 83 MINN. L. REV. 1127 (1999) (referring to "the accommodation process"  200 
CALDWELL, CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOA CH. LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 29, 2021 
Page 10 
as "a central feature of executive branch policy in this area and the process actually 
used to negotiate with Congress to seek to accommodate the legitimate needs of both 
branches") .8 
As you know, we learned only on November 23 of two sessions held as part of 
the November 5 proceedings that occurred without either me or Mr. Clark present. At 
one of those sessions, Representative Schiff stated as follows: Mr. Clark "refus[ed] even 
to answer questions about his statements about January 6th made to the press at least 
strike this member as not in good faith .... "Dr.Tr. 46:5-7.9 
Respectfully, we believe it was always clear from what was actually said on 
November 5 (both in writing and orally) that Mr. Clark was not refusing to ever testify 
about his remarks to a Bloomberg Law reporter on January 6. But that he was only 
urging, as a matter of proceeding in an orderly fashion, the Committee to await the 
conclusion of the Trump v. Thompson litigation before we discussed how to agree about 
testimony on any topic-all while inviting a dialogue with the Committee. 10 
Nevertheless, to avoid any iinplication (even an unfair one) that Mr. Clark is not 
proceeding in good faith, 1 can now agree to allow Mr. Oark appear in a public meeting 
of the full Committee to testify about the following topics that do not implicate any of 
the privi1eges asserted and are also appropriate ]y tailored to the Committee's mission 
under H. Res. 503: 
(1) Mr. Clark's questioning by and responses to a Bloomberg Law reporter 
interviewing him after January 6 about events at the Capitol, and (2) his 
role, if any, in planning, attending, responding to, or investigating January 
8 Professor Johnsen was the Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Legal Counsel at the start 
of the Biden Administration. 
9 Again, this citation is drawn from our notes since we lack access to a copy of a final transcript, though 
we have again requested we be given one in our other later dated today. 
10 A dialogue which at all times it appears the Committee has refused to enter, insisting on Mr. Clark's 
testimony on a smorgasbord of more than 20 topics, including Mr. Clark's conversations with President 
Trump. See Dr. Tr. at page 41 (Mr. Heaphy listing topics without Mr. Clark or me present in the room).  201 
CALDWELL, CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 29, 2021 
Page 11 
6's events or former President Trump's speech on the Ellipse that same 
day. 
Please let us know if this proposal is agreeable to the Committee, or otherwise 
continue the dialogue with us, consistent with the Committee's obligation to seek 
accommodation in good faith in cases involving invocations of executive privilege. 
Ends. 
cc: Jeffrey Bossert Clark (w/ enclosures)  202 
Cha rman Thompson Announces Representat ve Cheney as Se ect Comm -~ nvest gale the January 6th Attac on the Un led States Cap to 11/29/21 11 04AM 
HOME(/) ABOUT(/ABOUT) 
(/) 
COMMITTEE ACTIVITY (HTTPS:// JANUARY6TH.HOUSE.GOV /COMMITTEE_ACTIVITY) ,, 
(http://twitter.com/January6thC 
f 
(http://www.facebook.com/Janu 
MEDIA CENTER (/NEWS) WATCH LIVE (/NEWS/WATCH· LIVE) CONTACT(/CONTACT) am 
CHAIRMAN THOMPSON 
ANNOUNCES 
REPRESENTATIVE 
CHENEY AS SELECT 
COMMITTEE VICE CHAIR 
sep 2,2021 
Bolton, Ms-<hairman Bennie G. Thompson today announced that he has named 
Representative Liz Cheney (R·WY) to seive as the Vice Chair of the select Committee. 
Chairman Thompson said, •Representative Cheney has demonstrated again and again her 
commitment to getting answers about January 6th, ensuring accountability, and doing 
whatever it takes to protect democracy for the American people. Her leadership and 
insights have shaped the early wort< of the select Committee and this appointment 
underscores the bipartisan nature of this effort.· 
House Resolution 503 established the select Committee to investigate and report upon 
the facts, circumstances, and causes related to the January 6th attack and interference 
with the peaceful transfer of power. 
•Every member of this committee is dedicated to conducting a non-partisan, 
professional, and thorough investigation of all the relevant facts regarding January 6th 
and the threat to our Constitution we faced that day. I have accepted the position of Vice 
Chair of the committee to assure that we achieve that goal we owe it to the American 
people to investigate everything that led up to, and transpired on, January 6th. we will 
not be deterred by threats or attempted obstruction and we will not rest until our task is 
complete," said Vice Chair Cheney. 
Chairman Thompson continued, ·it's important to everyone that the select Committee 's 
leadership reflect the bipartisan effort we are engaged in and I'm pleased that Ms. 
Cheney has agreed to seive as the select committee's Vice Chair. we are fortunate to have 
a partner of such strength and courage, and I look forward to continuing our wort< 
together as we uncover the facts, tell the American people the full story of January 6th, 
and ensure that nothing like that day ever happens again." ... 
(https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u•/news/press• (http://www.youtube.com/chan 
TIPLINE(/TIP..LINE) Q, (/search) 
https // •nuery6th house gov/news/press re e•ses/cha rman thompson •nnounces represenlat ve cheney se ect comm ttee v ce char Peget of2 
Attachment A  203 
Cha rman Thompson Announces Representat ve Cheney as Se ect Comm ... nvest gate the January 6th Attac on the Un ted States Cap to 
releases/chairman-thompson-announces-rep resentative-cheney-select-committee-vice-
chair) ti (https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?&url=/news/press-
releases/chairman-thompson-announces-representa tive-cheney-select-commi ttee-vice­
chair&text=Chairman Thompson Announces Representative Cheney as Select Committee 
Vice Chair) illl (mailto:?subject=Chairman Thompson Announces 
Representative Cheney as Select Committee Vice Chair&body=/news/press­
releases/chairman-thompson-announces-rep resentative-cheney-select-commi ttee-vice­
chair) 
https // anuary6th house gov/news/press re eases/cha rman thompson announces representat ve cheney se eel comm nee v ce cha r 11/29/211104 AM 
Page2of2  204 
JS Comm ttee Ms ead ng W tnesses About Repub can Stall Presence 11/29/2110 46AM 
CORRUPTION 
J6 Committee Misleading 
Witnesses About 
Republican Staff Presence 
'If this was a 1·eal investigation, that'd land you injailfo1· prosecutorial 
misconduct,' Rep. Jim Banks said. 
Wyoming Rep. Liz Cheney ran to CNN a few weeks ago to accuse conservative 
stalwart Rep. Jim Banks of falsely presenting himself as the Jan. 6 commission's 
ranking member. Banks is, in fact, congressional Republicans' choice to be their 
top investigator on the committee, but he has been prevented from fulfilling his 
duties by Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi. 
However, it's Cheney who appears to be misrepresenting herself as the ranking 
member -that is, the top Republican -on the committee. 
January 6 Select Committee staff have been falsely telling witnesses that 
Republican staff will be present for interviews, according to multiple eyewitness 
sources and documents. In fact, not a single Republican-appointed member of 
Congress nor a single staff member representing the Republican conference is part 
of the controversial committee. 
hltps Jltheredera sl com/2021/11/10/ 6 comm ttee ms ead ng w tnesses about repub can staff presence/ Page 1ol 6 
Attachment B  205 
JS Comm ttea Ms ead ng W tnesses About Repub can Staff Presence 11/29/2110 46AM 
Witnesses are being told that John Wood, a longtime friend and ally of the Cheney 
family, will represent Republicans when witnesses testify. But neither Cheney nor 
her friend is representing the Republican conference. In fact, Cheney was 
appointed to the committee in early July by Pelosi herself. 
"John Wood works for the Democrat Patty, just like Liz Cheney, who was 
appointed by Pelosi and is not the Ranking Member of the Select Committee . She 
is misleading witnesses, before they testify under penalty oflaw, about the motives 
and the position of the person questioning them," said Banks, who has continued 
leading Republicans ' investigation of the federal government's handling of the Jan. 
6 riot at the Capitol. Cheney's work with CNN was designed to prevent him from 
being able to gain answers to the questions the select committee was ostensibly set 
up to answer. 
Cheney was given six days to explain whether she considers herself just the 
Democrat-appointed vice-chair of the committee or also the Republican ranking 
member, as is being represented to key witnesses. She has not responded to 
multiple requests for comment. 
The misrepresentation to witnesses is key because the absence of any ranking 
member - meaning, in this case, any Republican-appoint ed member -or 
minority patty staff means the committee appears to be failing to adhere to 
ironclad rules for its work. 
Pelosi "blew up" the Jan. 6 committee when she took what she herself admitted 
was the "unprecedented" step of refusing to seat multiple Republican-appointed 
members, including the highly respected Navy officer and Indiana Republican 
Banks, who was to be the committee's ranking member. She also banned Rep. Jim 
Jordan of Ohio, who currently serves as the top Republican on the Judiciary 
Committee. 
Pelosi chose two of her key Republican allies and anti-Trump obsessives to fill two 
https //thefedere st com/2021/11/10/ 6 comm ttee ms eed ng w tnesses about repub can staff presence/ Page 2ol 6  206 
JS Comm ttea Ms ead ng W tnesses About Repub can Staff Presence 11/29/2110 46AM 
of her slots for the committee. As such, they do not represent the Republican 
conference, which opposed their selection, but the Democrat conference, which 
supported their selection. 
Cheney was promoted to vice-chair in September in thanks for her stalwart work 
on Pelosi's behalf. Cheney, who has been censured by Wyoming Republicans for 
working against Republican voters and their interests, and who lost her position as 
House Conference chair for hijacking multiple briefings for Republican policy 
initiatives to talk about her personal vendetta against Trump, is facing 
precipitously low poll numbers and a challenge from popular Republican Harriet 
Hageman. 
Cheney was joined by lame-duck Adam Kinzinger of Illinois, who recently 
announced his retirement rather than facing ce1tain defeat from Illinois 
constituents who don't share his anti-Trump obsession. Kinzinger was appointed 
by Pelosi in late July to make the committee appear more bipattisan after she'd 
vetoed Banks and Jordan. Cheney, her selection for vice-chair, was brought in for 
the sole purpose of helping Democrats with their tribunal. 
The resolution establishing the committee, purpmtedly to investigate the federal 
government's role in detecting, preventing, prepating for, and responding to the 
Jan. 6 riot, says depositions taken by the select committee must follow House 
rules. 
Those rules cleat·ly state, "Consultation with the ranking minority member shall 
include three days' notice before any deposition. " Also, "A deposition shall be 
conducted by any member or committee counsel designated by the chair or 
ranking minority member of the Committee that noticed the deposition. When 
depositions are conducted by committee counsel, there shall be no more than two 
committee counsel permitted to question a witness per round. One of the 
committee counsel shall be designated by the chair and the other by the ranking 
minority member per round." 
https //thefedere st com/2021/11/10/ 6 comm ttee ms ead ng w tnesses about repub cen staff presence/ Pege3ol 6  207 
JS Comm ttea Ms ead ng W tnesses About Repub can Staff Presence 11/29/2110 46AM 
Additionally, the rules say, "Deposition questions shall be propound ed in rounds. 
The length of each round shall not exceed 60 minutes per side and shall provide 
equal time to the majority and the minority. In each round, the member(s) or 
committee counsel designated by the chair shall ask questions first, and the 
member(s) or committee counsel designated by the ranking minority member shall 
ask questions second." 
The point of these rules is to structure depositions so the minmity and the majmity 
counsel have the same opportunity to question witnesses and gather information 
for their separate repmts. That's why they rotate and why they're allotted equal 
time. Having questions alternate from one hostile lawyer to another hostile lawyer 
who is working with the first makes a mockery of the provisions. It also means that 
the hostile lawyers can coordinate and cherry-pick which information to leak or 
publish, and which to conceal from the public because it contradicts their preferred 
narrative. 
The rules do not envision the circumstances that accompany Pelosi's uni-party 
select committee. The House Rules ''become nonsensical in a situation like this," 
said one congressional aide, adding, "This isn't just a pmtisan investigation -it's a 
coverup." 
For the select committee to be in accordance with the rules regm·ding consultation 
for depositions, Cheney must be considered simultaneously the ranking member 
for the minority party while also being the vice-chair for the majority party. 
Hill lawyers say Pelosi's handling of the committee casts doubt on its adherence to 
the rules. Because she vetoed the ranking member from the committee, it has no 
ranking member. But the committee rules require consultation with the ranking 
member before taking certain basic actions, such as taking depositions, including 
those pursuant to subpoenas. 
"So how can you consult with the ranking member when you don't have one?" 
https //thefedere st com/2021/11/10/ 6 comm ttee ms eed ng w tnesses about repub can staff presence/ Page4ol 6  208 
JS Comm ttea Ms ead ng W tnesses About Repub can Staff Presence 11/29/2110 46AM 
asked one Hill attorney. 
The multiple sources consulted for this article include a document which 
confirmed January 6 Committ ee staff represented to a witness that Wood would be 
the Republican counsel during their interview. 
"If this was a real investigation , that'd land you in jail for prosecut01ial 
misconduct ," Banks said of the false representation. "F01tunat ely for Liz, this is a 
sham investigation ," he added. 
Mollie Ziegle1· Hemingway is a senio1· editor at The Federalist. She is 
Senior Journalism Fellow at Hillsdale College. A Fox News 
contributor, she is a regular member of the Fox News All-Stars panel 
on "Special Report with Bret Baier." She is the author of"Rigged: How 
the Media, Big Tech, and the Democmts Seized Our Elections." Follow 
he1· on Twitter at @MZHemingway . 
https //thefedere st com/2021/11/10 / 6 comm ttee ms eed ng w tnesses about repub can staff presence / Page5ol 6  209 
EXHIBIT 14  210 
CALDWELL. CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH , LLP 
HAltllY W. MACOOUCAlD 
M'-NACINC PARTNER ATTORNEYS AT LAW 
November 29, 2021 
Hon. Bennie G. Thompson, Chairman 
January 6th Select Committee 
U.S. House of Representatives 
Longworth House Office Building 
Washington, DC 20515 
Via Email 
ADDITIONAL OBJECTIONS BASED ON INFORMATION 
FIRST LEARNED OF BY MR. CLARK AND COUNSEL ON 11/23/21 
Dear Representative Thompson: 
This letter is sent to flag additional legal objections arising from or catalyzed by (1) 
Mr. Clark's review on November 23, 2021 at the Longworth House Office Building of the 
dra~ November 5, 2021 deposition transcript and/or (2) my simultaneous review of that 
same draft transcript from a federal building in Atlanta, Georgia, with a Webex 
connection linking the two locations. Most significantly, unbeknownst to Mr. Clark and 
me before November 23, two transcribed sessions were held with Committee Members 
and staff after we had departed on November 5. 
Learning the content of these sessions only upon our review of the draft transcript 
presents yet another serious due process problem with these proceedings as applied to 
Mr. Oark. Particularly alarming is that the topics on which Mr. Clark was to be 
questioned were not shared with us while we were present but were instead put on the 
record in Star Chamber fashion. See In re Oliver, 333 U.S. 257, 2~9 (1948) ("[D]istrust 
for secret trials has been variously ascribed to the notorious use of this practice by the 
Spanish Inquisition, to the excesses of the English Court of Star Chamber , and to the  211 
CALDWELL, CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH. LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 29, 2021 
Page 2 
French monarchy's abuse of the lettre de cachet." (footnotes omitted)). Had we not asked 
to review a copy of the draft transcript, we would have been kept in the dark about 
specific topics that Mr. Clark supposedly refused to testify about on a blanket basis so 
that the myth that Mr. Clark issued a blanket refusal to testify could be perpetuated. 
Please see the first point below for more on this. 
Any references below to the November 5 draft transcript, not yet finalized, are 
based on our notes. Those notes may not be perfect because of the range of problems set 
out in our letter to you sent the evening of November 23, which caused us to lose time 
and because those problems made conditions for our review sub-optimal. Nor is there 
any reason why we should have been denied the ability to take away copies of the draft 
deposition transcript so that we could review it under conditions that allowed us to 
consult freely while maintaining attorney-client privilege and so that we could more 
accurately quote from it to protect Mr. Clark's legal rights. Both of us are lawyers and we 
have never encountered a legal process that did not allows us access in writing, but only 
under observed and highly controlled circumstances, to a pre-final deposition transcript 
to review. We do recognize that you indicated in a letter dated November 26, 2021 to me 
that the Committee is still considering our request for a copy of the transcript. Please let 
us know about the Committee's resolution there when you can.1 But the restrictions on 
our access to the transcript are another Star Chamber-like feature of the Committee's 
proceedings. 
The new objections we raise are as follows, and they are without prejudice to a 
response to your November 17, 2021 letter, which we are still working on: 
1 In a footnote, see Thompson Letter, at 1 n.3 (Nov. 26, 2021), you argue that action by the full House of 
Representatives would be required to release the audio file from November 5. But neither House Resolution 
558 (112th Cong.) nor House Resolution 553 (116th Cong.) preclude release of the audio file. Instead, both 
Resolutions simply show the full House resolving to release audio files for trial purposes. However, you 
cite no authority for the proposition that a resolution by the full House is a necessary condition and thus 
that an audio file can be released only in that fashion. You or your advising counsel must see that those 
Resolutions do not prove the point for which they are cited-far from it.  212 
CALDWELL , CARLSON. 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 29, 2021 
Page3 
First, there is no indication in the transcript of the second session held without us 
on November 5 present-from 4:15 pm to approximately 4:21 pm-that you had either 
read my November 5 letter or properly understood that it was not asserting an absolute 
privilege to all potential questions. Nevertheless, Mr. Heaphy represented to you that the 
"letter [was] asserting blanket privilege." Dr. Tr. at 48:24.2 So, at the time you ruled, you 
appear to have been misinformed about the contents of our November 5 letter and 
transcribed statements on the morning of November 5. Accordingly, we request that you 
acknowledge in writing that: 
(1) the concluding paragraph of my November 5 letter noted that you could 
respond with "a proposal to me by the Committee as to a more limited scope of inquiry 
narrowed to January 6-something that I would be happy to engage on to try to reach an 
agreement.''; 
(2) Mr. Clark and I repeatedly stated on November 5, as the draft transcript 
reflects, that we were not adopting a blanket position, see, e.g., Dr. Tr. at 36:4-6 (where Mr. 
Clark clearly stated "I would say that we've not reached an impasse, and there have been 
repeated attempts to characterize the position as absolutist. It's not. We're inviting a 
dialogue in the letter."). You were apparently not informed of this either; and thus 
(3) your ruling that "Mr. Clark does not enjoy categorical claims of privilege across 
every element[J of the select committee investigation authorized by House Resolution 
503" should be withdrawn as a non sequitur because it is ruling on a counterfactual 
objection that we did not actually advance either in our November 5 letter or in the live 
session on November 5. Additionally, you are by now certainly aware (or should be 
aware) that my November 8, 2021 letter to you (e.g., pages 1-2, 4) and my November 12, 
2021 letter (e.g., pages 6-7) noted that we were not asserting "absolute immunity." 
In the alternative, we would request that you share this letter immediately with all 
Committee Members and it is to them we address this follow-on request: "Please invoke 
Rule 7 of the 117" Congress Regulations for Use of Deposition Authority by appealing 
2 All citations to the Draft Transcript (abbreviated Dr. Tr.) are to the version we reviewed on November 23.  213 
CALDWELL, CARLSON. 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 29, 2021 
Page4 
Chairman Thompson's ruling in accord with that Rule."3 Relatedly, if such an appeal is 
filed by a Member, I would request the opportunity to be heard on Mr. Clark's behalf in 
a transcribed and in-person meeting held before a quorum of the Committee. 
Given the clear disconnect between a misconstrued objection we did not make, 
which was what you ruled regarding on November 5, and the basis for and contours of 
our objection as we actually stated it, all other Members of the Committee should vote to 
reverse your ruling on appeal. But at the very least, one or more Members of the minority 
should file an appeal in an attempt to get you to rule on the objection that was actually 
made and not one that put words in our mouths. So whether such an appeal will be filed 
now that this issue has been surfaced (and again, it could not have been surfaced prior to 
our transcript review on November 23) will act as an important test of whether there is 
representation of the minority partt; in more than name only on this Committee or if 
those ostensible Members also have an unalterably closed mind characterized by 
prejudgment, which I have previously explained is a violation of due process. Please see 
my email drafted while I was in flight on November 5 back to Atlanta and in the 
attachment to my subsequent November 12 letter. See MacDougald Letter, at 2 & Att. B 
(Nov. 8, 2021); Memo. Re: Clark Subpoena, at 1 (Nov. 12, 2021). 
Second, as is implicit in the first objection above, but which J state as a separate 
point here for clarity, we have now seen for the first time that the transcript clearly reflects 
that you had already ruled in the second session on November 5 (held without us present) 
that our objection (as mis-framed) had been overruled. This clinches the Queen of Hearts 
problem of post hoc rationalization that I set out in my November 12 letter and attached 
memo. See MacDougald Letter, at 2 (Nov. 12, 2021); Memo. Re: Clark Subpoena, at 2 (Nov. 
12, 2021). In other words, this revelation confirms that the November 9 letter you sent to 
me was an attempt to paper over the defects of your November 5 late afternoon ruling 
3 We advance this argument as an alternative one to our primary position, stated in my other letter to you 
today, that this Committee's composition precludes any use of the House Deposition Rules and thus th.it 
the November 5 deposition was ultra vires. I continue to reserve all of Mr. Clark's legal rights, especially as 
various pr9blems with the Committee's actions continue to emerge.  214 
CALDWELL. CARLSON. 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH. LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 29, 2021 
Pages 
and thus forms another reason why one or more Members should appeal your November 
5 ruling.4 
Third, in your November 26 letter, you register a sort of complaint that because 
Mr. Clark did not sign the transcript or certificate set before him on November 23, you 
may not opt not to include the corrections we identified to the transcript on November 
23 in the final transcript. See Thompson Letter, at I (Nov. 26). But you ignore the due 
process problem we identified of a transcript that Mr. Clark is expected to sign but that 
(a) had errors and multiple versions floating around as a "known issue" on November 23 
and yet we still encountered that issue last week; (b) yet you will not allow us to lock 
down a single final version of the transcript that we can keep a copy of to ensure the 
transcript is not further changed; (c) you present no response to my point that the 
integrity of the transcript has already been threatened in a legally unprecedented fashion; 
and (d) you are silent about our sensible suggestion that a certified pdf document could 
be produced and retained by all sides, assuring everyone that the transcript could not 
undergo further unilateral revision. 
Fourth, your letter offers no response to our request that the identity of all 
Members and staff present for any portion of the November 5 questioning be listed to 
reflect the relevant portions of the transcript for which they were present. See 
MacDougald Letter, at 3 (Nov. 23, 2021) ("[T]his must be corrected in the revised 
transcript such that the transcript accurately indicates precisely who affiliated with the 
Committee was present for each of the three distinct segments of the session on 
November 5 reflected in the transcript, respectively, i.e., (1) the main period where Mr. 
Clark and I were present, (2) the period late morning where staff and some members 
remained on the record to mark exhibits for identification purposes and to set out their 
unilateral positions without our presence; and (3) the period late afternoon where Chair 
Thompson participated and purported to rule on our legal objections, again without us 
4 We recognize that Rule 7 concerning depositions indicates that appeals must be noticed by Members 
within 3 days of the ruling but your November 5 ruling was dearly interlocutory and can be revisited. And 
avoiding the due process problems we have been highlighting since November 8 surely provides a strong 
basis for you to reconsider. Members could also call for you to reconsider your ruling as a general matter­
outside the parameters of Rule 7.  215 
CALDWELL, CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 29, 2021 
Page 6 
present."). There is no reason for the Committee not to do so unless it or the court reporter 
did not track that information, in which case that point should be admitted and 
memorialized as part of the final transcript. 
Fifth, and reserving all rights as to other topics, in the extensive list of topics. -., et out on the record but without Mr. Clark or I being present, we have to poinl 
out that one of the topics ■■■■ 1£1.agged directly contradicts a statement that the 
Department of Justice made to us about the Committee's position on topics, namely, 
DOJ's statement via Kira Antell as follows: 
Finally, I wanted to address your question seeking access to materials 
relating to a classified ODNI [Office of the Director of National Intelligence) 
briefing of Mr. Clark in early January. OLA [i.e., DO)'s Office of Legislative 
Affairs] has spoken to the Select Committee and confirmed that the details of 
this briefing are outside the scope of their interest in speaking with Mr. 
Clark. 
MacDougald Letter, at 3-4 & n.5 (Nov. 12, 2021) (quoting Ms. Antell). Compare Dr. Tr. at 
43:13-15 (Heaphy: "[W]e wanted to ask him, for instance, about an ODNI briefing that 
he sought about alleged interference with Dominion voting machines by the Chjnese 
government.").5 Even assuming for the sake of argumen t that this is a permissible line 
of inquiry with Mr. Clark in light of the various applicable privileges, this is a serious 
contradiction which we will take up with DOJ by renewing our request under DO)'s 
5 Note once more that this is the Committee's unilateral view of this issue. By contrast, Mr. Clark thinks 
the relevant ODNJ materials, including his secure discussion with the then-Director of National Intelligence 
Ratcliffe, are relevant for many reasons, assuming the various privilege objections were resolved in favor 
of giving testimony on this topic. As I explained on November 12, it is not up to the Committee to decide 
what is relevant to Mr. Clark's potential response to any given line of questioning. MacDougald Letter, at 
4 (Nov. 12, 2021). Mr. Clark can determine that for himself, consulting with me. The manner in which the 
Committee is proceeding. based on what Ms. Antell has represented, is equivalent to asserting in circular 
foshion that "Mr. Clark does not need access to X category of material because we do not believe he needs 
access to it." It is sufficient to show that Mr. Clark is entitled to review and refresh his recollection from 
that material that the Committee wants to ask about it.  216 
Æ CALDWELL, CARLSON, 
ELLIOTT & DELOACH, LLP 
Hon. Rep. Bennie G. Thompson 
November 29, 2021 
Page7 
regulations to be able to review the relevant documents. This will require confirmation 
that Mr. Clark's security clearances are stil1 operable and that I, as his counsel, obtain 
those security clearances anew, so that Mr. Clark can be given the due process 
protections provided by receiving advice of counsel. 
Sincerely, 
Cald, ell, zls;i[j eLo-:;; 
arry W. MacDougald ) 
cc: Jeffrey Bossert Clark 