U.S. GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 50–116 PDF 2022 BUSINESS MEETING ON A REPORT RECOM-
MENDING THAT THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTA-TIVES CITE MARK RANDALL MEADOWS FOR CRIMINAL CONTEMPT OF CONGRESS 
MEETING 
OF THE  
SELECT COMMITTEE TO 
INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH 
ATTACK ON THE 
UNITED STATES CAPITOL 
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
ONE HUNDRED SEVENTEENTH CONGRESS 
FIRST SESSION 
DECEMBER 13, 2021 
Serial No. 117–3 
Printed for the use of the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th 
Attack on the United States Capitol 
Available via the World Wide Web: http://www.govinfo.gov  (II) SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON 
THE UNITED STATES CAPITOL 
BENNIE G. T HOMPSON , Mississippi, Chairman 
LIZCHENEY , Wyoming, Vice Chair 
ZOELOFGREN , California 
ADAM B. S CHIFF , California 
PETE AGUILAR , California 
STEPHANIE N. M URPHY , Florida 
JAMIE RASKIN , Maryland 
ELAINE G. L URIA , Virginia 
ADAM KINZINGER , Illinois  (III) COMMITTEE STAFF 
DAVID B. B UCKLEY , Staff Director 
KRISTIN L. A MERLING , Deputy Staff Director and Chief Counsel 
HOPE GOINS , Senior Counsel to the Chairman 
JOSEPH B. M AHER , Senior Counsel to the Vice Chair 
TIMOTHY J. H EAPHY , Chief Investigative Counsel 
JAMIE FLEET , Senior Advisor 
TIMOTHY R. M ULVEY , Communications Director 
CANDYCE PHOENIX , Senior Counsel and Senior Advisor 
JOHN F. W OOD, Senior Investigative Counsel and Of Counsel to the Vice Chair 
KATHERINE B. A BRAMS , Staff Associate 
TEMIDAYO AGANGA -WILLIAMS , Senior 
Investigative Counsel 
ALEJANDRA APECECHEA , Investigative Counsel 
LISAA. B IANCO , Director of Member Services 
and Security Manager 
JEROME P. B JELOPERA , Investigator 
BRYAN BONNER , Investigative Counsel 
RICHARD R. B RUNO , Senior Administrative 
Assistant 
MARCUS CHILDRESS , Investigative Counsel 
JOHN MARCUS CLARK , Security Director 
JACQUELINE N. C OLVETT , Digital Director 
HEATHER I. C ONNELLY , Professional Staff 
Member 
MEGHAN E. C ONROY , Investigator 
HEATHER L. C ROWELL , Printer Proofreader 
WILLIAM C. D ANVERS , Senior Researcher 
SOUMYALATHA DAYANANDA , Senior 
Investigative Counsel 
STEPHEN W. D EVINE, Senior Counsel 
LAWRENCE J. E AGLEBURGER , Professional 
Staff Member 
KEVIN S. E LLIKER , Investigative Counsel 
MARGARET E. E MAMZADEH , Staff Associate 
SADALLAH A. F ARAH , Professional Staff 
Member 
DANIEL A. G EORGE , Senior Investigative 
Counsel 
JACOB H. G LICK, Investigative Counsel 
AARON S. G REENE , Clerk 
MARC S. H ARRIS , Senior Investigative Counsel 
ALICE K. H AYES , Clerk 
QUINCY T. H ENDERSON , Staff Assistant 
JENNA HOPKINS , Professional Staff Member 
CAMISHA L. J OHNSON , Professional Staff 
Member THOMAS E. J OSCELYN , Senior Professional 
Staff Member 
REBECCA L. K NOOIHUIZEN , Financial 
Investigator 
CASEY E. L UCIER , Investigative Counsel 
DAMON M. M ARX, Professional Staff Member 
EVAN B. M AULDIN , Chief Clerk 
YONATAN L. M OSKOWITZ , Senior Counsel 
HANNAH G. M ULDAVIN , Deputy 
Communications Director 
JONATHAN D. M URRAY , Professional Staff 
Member 
JACOB A. N ELSON , Professional Staff Member 
ELIZABETH OBRAND , Staff Associate 
RAYMOND O’M ARA, Director of External 
Affairs 
ELYES OUECHTATI , Technology Partner 
ROBIN M. P EGUERO , Investigative Counsel 
SANDEEP A. P RASANNA , Investigative Counsel 
BARRY PUMP, Parliamentarian 
SEAN M. Q UINN , Investigative Counsel 
BRITTANY M. J. R ECORD , Senior Counsel 
DENVER RIGGLEMAN , Senior Technical Advisor 
JOSHUA D. R OSELMAN , Investigative Counsel 
JAMES N. S ASSO , Senior Investigative Counsel 
GRANT H. S AUNDERS , Professional Staff 
Member 
SAMANTHA O. S TILES , Chief Administrative 
Officer 
SEAN P. T ONOLLI , Senior Investigative 
Counsel 
DAVID A. W EINBERG , Senior Professional Staff 
Member 
AMANDA S. W ICK, Senior Investigative 
Counsel 
DARRIN L. W ILLIAMS , JR., Staff Assistant 
ZACHARY S. W OOD, Clerk  (IV) CONTRACTORS & CONSULTANTS 
RAWAA ALOBAIDI  
MELINDA ARONS  
STEVE BAKER  
ELIZABETH BISBEE  
DAVID CANADY  
JOHN COUGHLIN  
AARON DIETZEN  
GINAFERRISE  
ANGEL GOLDSBOROUGH  
JAMES GOLDSTON  
POLLY GRUBE  
L. C HRISTINE HEALEY  
DANNY HOLLADAY  
PERCY HOWARD  
DEAN JACKSON  
STEPHANIE J. J ONES  
HYATT MAMOUN  
MARY MARSH  
TODD MASON  
RYAN MAYERS  
JEFFMCBRIDE  
FRED MURAM  
ALEX NEWHOUSE  
JOHN NORTON  
ORLANDO PINDER  
OWEN PRATT  
DANPRYZGODA  
BRIAN SASSER  
WILLIAM SCHERER  
DRISS SEKKAT  
CHRIS STUART  
PRESTON SULLIVAN  
BRIAN YOUNG  
INNOVATIVE DRIVEN   (V) C O N T E N T S 
Page 
STATEMENTS OF MEMBERS OF CONGRESS  
The Honorable Bennie G. Thompson, a Representative in Congress From 
the State of Mississippi, and Chairman, Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol ...................................... 1 
The Honorable Liz Cheney, a Representative in Congress From the State 
of Wyoming, and Vice Chair, Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol ............................................................ 10 
The Honorable Zoe Lofgren, a Representative in Congress From the State 
of California .......................................................................................................... 13 
The Honorable Adam Schiff, a Representative in Congress From the State 
of California .......................................................................................................... 14 
The Honorable Adam Kinzinger, a Representative in Congress From the 
State of Illinois ..................................................................................................... 14 
The Honorable Pete Aguilar, a Representative in Congress From the State 
of California .......................................................................................................... 15 
The Honorable Stephanie Murphy, a Representative in Congress From the 
State of Florida ..................................................................................................... 16 
The Honorable Jamie Raskin, a Representative in Congress From the State 
of Maryland .......................................................................................................... 17 
The Honorable Elaine Luria, a Representative in Congress From the State 
of Virginia ............................................................................................................. 19 
C
OMMITTEE BUSINESS  
Report ....................................................................................................................... 1 2 
FOR THE RECORD  
The Honorable Bennie G. Thompson, a Representative in Congress From 
the State of Mississippi, and Chairman, Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol: Correspondence .................................................................................................... 3 
A
PPENDIX  
Full text, Report ...................................................................................................... 30   (1) BUSINESS MEETING ON A REPORT RECOM-
MENDING THAT THE HOUSE OF REP-RESENTATIVES CITE MARK RANDALL MEADOWS FOR CRIMINAL CONTEMPT OF CONGRESS 
Monday, December 13, 2021 
U.S. H OUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES , 
SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH 
ATTACK ON THE UNITED STATES CAPITOL , 
Washington, DC. 
The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 7 p.m., in room 390, 
Cannon House Office Building, Hon. Bennie G. Thompson (Chair-man of the Committee) presiding. 
Present: Representatives Thompson, Cheney, Lofgren, Schiff, 
Aguilar, Murphy, Raskin, Luria, and Kinzinger. 
Chairman T
HOMPSON . A quorum being present, the Select Com-
mittee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol will be in order. 
The Select Committee is meeting this evening to consider a re-
port on the resolution recommending the House of Representatives find Mark Randall Meadows in contempt of Congress for refusal to comply with a subpoena duly issued by the Select Committee to In-vestigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol. 
Without objection, the Chair is authorized to declare the Com-
mittee in recess at any time. 
I will now recognize myself for an opening statement. Before I start my statement, let me, on behalf of the Committee, 
add our condolences and prayers to the people of Kentucky and surrounding States on the devastation they have received during the tornados. Our hearts and prayers go out to all those impacted. 
This week, I expect that roughly a dozen key witnesses will pro-
vide testimony on the record in our investigation. We will hear from many more informally as we continue to gather facts about the violence of January 6th and its causes. 
That should put us way up north of the 300 mark, in terms of 
witnesses who have given us information. Add to that more than 
30,000 records and nearly 250 substantive tips on our tip line. 
Anyone listening at home tonight, if you have any information 
you want to share with us, you can find our tip line on the Select Committee’s website, january6.house.gov. 
The court of appeals here in Washington has ruled quickly in our 
favor regarding the Select Committee’s work to uncover relevant information. Day to day, we are getting a clearer picture of what  2 
happened, who was involved and who paid for it, and where the 
money went. 
So I am pleased to report we are making swift progress, and be-
fore too long our findings will be out in the open. We will have pub-lic hearings. We will tell this story to the American people. But we won’t do it piecemeal. We will do it when we can tell the story all at once from start to finish, not leaving anyone guessing and not allowing it to fade into the memories of last week’s news. 
This story is too important. The stakes are too high. We have to 
do this job right. That means we have to address the handful of outliers soberly and appropriately. That is why we are here this evening. 
The Select Committee’s report referring Mr. Meadows for crimi-
nal contempt charges is clear and compelling. As White House chief of staff, Mr. Meadows played a role in, or was witness to, key events leading up to and including the January 6th assault on the United States Capitol. 
Don’t let lawsuits or op-eds about executive privilege by Mr. 
Meadows or his representatives confuse you. 
It comes down to this: Mr. Meadows started by doing the right 
thing, cooperating. He handed over records that he didn’t try to shield behind some excuse. But, in an investigation like ours, that is just the first step. When the records raise questions, as these most certainly do, you have to come in and answer those questions. When it was time for him to follow the law, come in and testify on those questions, he changed his mind and told us to pound sand. He didn’t even show up. 
Now, this happened the same day his book was published, the 
same book that goes into detail about matters the Select Com-mittee is reviewing. It also details conversations he had with Presi-dent Trump and others, conversations we want to hear more about. He had also appeared on national television discussing the events of January 6th. 
He has no credible excuse for stonewalling the Select Commit-
tee’s investigation. 
We did receive another letter today from Mr. Meadows’s attor-
ney, asking that we not hold his client in criminal contempt. With-out objection, that letter will be made part of the record. 
[The information follows:]  3 
McGuireWoods LLP .ii 
George). Terwilliger Ill McGUIREWCDDS 
December 13, 2021 
VIA EMAIL 
Honorable Bennie G. Thompso n, Chairman 
Honorable Liz Cheney, Vice Chair 
All Members of the Select Committee to Investigate the 
January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
U.S. House of Representatives 
Washington, DC 205 I 5 
Re: Subpoenas Served on Honorable Mark R. Meadows 
Dear Mr. Chairman and Members of the Select Committee: 
Mr. Thompson has indicated publicly that he intends to ask today for a committee vote to 
send to the House of Representatives a recommendation that it refer our client, the Hon. Mark R. 
Meadows, to the Department of Justice for prosecution under 2 U.S.C. § 192, the crime of 
contemp t of Congress. Such a referral would be contrary to law. The Select Committee and the 
House should make no such referral. I respectfully ask your indulgence to explain why such a 
referral would be contrary to law, manifestly unjust, unwise, and unfair. It would ill-serve the 
country to rush to judgment on the matter. 
The contemplated referral would be contrary to law because a good-faith invocatio n of 
executive privilege and testimonial immunity by a former senior executive official is not a 
violation of2 U.S.C. § 192. A referral to the Department of Justice based on such an invocation 
would ignore the statute's legislative history and historical application, contravene well-
Atlanta I Austin I Baltimore I CharlOlle I ChadOltesv ille I Chicat,>o I Dallas I Houston I Jack!'<lnvi lle I London I Los Angeles· Century Cily 
Los Angeles· Downtown I New York I Norfolk I Pittsburgh I Rak:igh I Richmond I San Francisco I Tys.ons I Washington. O.C.  4 
All Members of the Select Committee to Investigate the 
January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
December 13, 2021 
Page 2 
established separation of powers principles, and improperly impute a criminal intent to a good­
faith actor. 
Prior use of the inherent contempt power, the legislative history of the criminal contempt 
statute, and subsequent usage of the criminal contempt statute all demonstrate that§ 192 was not 
intended to apply to good-faith assertions of executive privilege. Despite regular disagreements 
between the executive and legislature on issues of privilege and the withholding of documents, 
§ 192 was not used against an executive branch official until 1982, 125 years after its passage. In 
fact, during an 1886 floor debate in the Senate regarding a demand for executive documents, one 
Senator seeking the documents acknowledged that, should the President order them withheld, 
"there is no remedy." 17 Cong. Rec. 2800 (1886) (remarks of Sen. Logan). 
This opinion, widely held until more recent disputes, properly comprehends the legislative 
history of§ 192. The criminal contempt of Congress statute was originally passed as a supplement 
to Congress's inherent contempt powers, specifically to allow imprisonment of a contemptuous 
witness when the legislative session ended. See United States v. B,yan, 339 U.S. 323,327 (1950). 
The inherent contempt power-predecessor of the criminal contempt power-was never used 
against a member of the executive branch who asserted executive privilege. See Prosecllfionfor 
Contempt of Congress of an Executive Branch Official Who Has Asserted a Claim of Executive 
Privilege, 8Op.O.L.C. I0I, 131 (1984). 
Nor did the legislators who added the criminal contempt power by passing § 192 
contemplate that it would ever be used against executive officials. When the sponsor of the bill 
was asked whether the criminal contempt power could be used to compel disclosure of diplomatic 
secrets ( one of the principal issues of executive privilege at the time), he brushed off the question 
by saying "I can hardly conceive such a case" and argued that the questioners should stop attacking 
the bill "by putting instances of the extremist cases." 42 Cong. Globe 431 (remarks of Rep. Orr). 
A referral of a senior presidential aide would also be unwise because it would do great 
damage to the institution of the Presidency, as restraint in the application of the statute over time 
attests. Despite sporadic attempts to use § 192 against Executive Branch officials since 1982, 1 the 
1 Most notably White House Counsel Harriet Miers and Chief of Staff Joshua Bolten in 2007, see Comm. on Judiciary, 
U.S. l-/011seofRepresenlafives I'. Miers, 558 F, Supp, 2d 53, 61 (D.D.C. 2008); Attorney General Eric Holder in 2012,  5 
All Members of the Select Committee to Investigate the 
January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
December 13, 2021 
Page 3 
statute has never been used to prosecute one of the President's most senior aides who declined to 
appear and give testimony under compulsion by Congress. That is because the Department of 
Justice has recognized that it is vital, for principled and practical reasons, that the President's 
immediate advisors be immune from compelled testimony. 
In principle, the separation of powers unquestionably requires that the President himself 
remain immune from compelled questioning before the legislature. But maintaining immunity for 
the President alone would fail to properly preserve the independence of the Presidency. "Absent 
immunity for a President's closest advisers, congressional committees could wield their 
compulsory power to attempt to supervise the President's actions, or to harass those advisers in an 
effort to influence their conduct, retaliate for actions the committee disliked, or embarrass and 
weaken the President for partisan gain." Immunity of the Assistant to the President and Director 
of the Office of Political Strategy and Outreachfr01 11 Congressional Subpoena, 38 Op. O.L.C. *5 
(July 15, 2014). 
A criminal referral of a senior-most presidential advisor who declines to testify before 
Congress would contravene these long-held and well-established separation of powers principles. 
Since at least 1940, there has been unanimous bipartisan consensus among presidential 
administrations that "the President and his immediate advisers are absolutely immune from 
testimonial compulsion by a Congressional committee." Assertion of Executive Privilege With 
Respect to Clemency Decision, 23 Op. O.L.C. 1, 4 (1999). It is clear that Congress could not 
compel the President himself, on penalty of law, to appear and testify regarding his official duties, 
and "[t]he same separation of powers principles that protect a President from compelled 
congressional testimony also apply to senior presidential advisers." Immunity of the Former 
Counsel to the President From Compelled Congressional Testimony, 31 Op. O.L.C. 191, 192 
(2007). 
In practice, immunity from testimony, as opposed to a privilege that must be asserted 
during testimony, is important to avoid potential human error or political gamesmanship. 
see Comm. 011 Oversight & Gov't Reform v. Holder, 979 F. Supp. 2d I, 3 (D.D.C. 2013); and IRS Official Lois Lerner 
in 2013, see H. Res. 574, I 13th Cong. (2014).  6 
All Members of the Select Committee to Investigate the 
January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
December 13, 2021 
Page 4 
[T]he ability to assert executive privilege during live testimony in response to 
hostile questioning would not remove the threat to the confidentiality of presidential 
communications. An immediate presidential adviser could be asked, under the 
express or implied threat of contempt of Congress, a wide range of unanticipat ed 
and hostile questions about highly sensitive deliberations and communications. In 
the heat of the moment, without the opportunity for careful reflection, the adviser 
might have difficulty confining his remarks to those that do not reveal such 
sensitive information. Or the adviser could be reluctant to repeatedly invoke 
executive privilege, even though validly applicable, for fear of the congressional 
and media condemnatio n she or the President might endure. 
Immunity of the Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Political Strategy and 
Outreach from Congressional Subpoena, 38 Op. O.L.C. *4. A criminal referral of a senior 
executive official who invokes this immunity would contravene this safeguard of the separation of 
powers.2 
These protections do not exist for the personal benefit of any executive advisor, but to 
protect the institution of the Presidency. Executive privilege is demanded by the separatio n of 
powers "to ensure that presidential decisionmaking is of the highest caliber, informed by honest 
advice and full knowledge." In re Sealed Case, 121 F.3d 729, 750 (D.C. Cir. 1997). The immunity 
of senior presidential advisors from compelled testimony serves the same purpose, because "[t]he 
prospect of compelled interrogation by a potentially hostile congressional committee about 
confidential communications with the President or among the President's immediate staff could 
chill presidential advisers from providing unpopular advice or from fully examining an issue with 
the President or others." Immunity of the Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of 
Political Strategy and Outreach from Congressional Subpoena , 38 Op. O.L.C. *4. The immunity 
from compulsion must also extend to former aides for if mere passage of office from one 
administration to the next extinguished the privilege, it would be no privilege at all. See Nixon v. 
Adm'roJGen. Servs., 433 U.S. 425,449 (1977) ("the privilege is not for the benefit of the President 
2 As you know, Mr. Chainnan, we have, for the reasons articulated above, on several occasion offered the use of 
written interrogatories so as to address claims of Executive Privilege in an orderly and sensible manner. You have 
refused those opportunities each time. I would note that in I 795 in the first case of Congressional contempt, the matter 
was pursued by the Speaker propounding written interrogatories to the alleged contemnors. See, Congress's Contempt 
Power and the Enforcement of Congressional Subpoenas: A Sketch., Congressional Research Service; 
https://sgp fas.org/cr s/misc/RL34114.pdfat p.4. Our last offer to participate in interrogatories remains open.  7 
All Members of the Select Committee to Investigate the 
January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
December 13, 2021 
Page 5 
as an individual, but for the benefit of the Republic. Therefore the privilege survives the individual 
President's tenure."); Immunity of the Former Counsel to the President From Compelled 
Congressional Testimony, 31 Op. O.L.C. at 192-93 ("The fact that Ms. Miers is a former Counsel 
to the President does not alter the analysis."). That is especially the case where, as here, the senior 
advisor is from the immediately prior administration and the Committee's inquiry would delve 
deeply into the councils of that administration. 
In addition to these constitutional infirmities , a referral for criminal prosecutio n under 
§ 192 would be an unfair exercise of bad faith because one essential element of that offense is not 
present and provable in this case. As to any alleged criminal violation generally and as to this 
violation specifically, as a matter of law there must be a showing of criminal intent to do wrong. 
A referral of criminal contempt of Congress for an individual who on a good-faith basis asserts a 
privilege not to appear and to provide privileged information would improperly impute mens rea 
to a good-fait h actor. 
The criminal contempt statute does not impose criminal penalties on anyone who defaults 
on a congress ional subpoena, but only those who "willfully make[] default." 2 U.S.C. § 192. "As 
a general matter, when used in the criminal context, a 'willful' act is one undertaken with a 'bad 
purpose."' Bryan v. United States, 524 U.S. 184, 191 (1998). For example, "a good faith claim 
of privilege against self-incrimination, although erroneous, is a defense to the element of 
willfulness which is necessary for a conviction for willful failure to file [an income tax return] 
under 26 U.S.C.A. § 7203." United States v. Pilcher, 672 F.2d 875, 877 (11th Cir. 1982); accord 
Garner v. United States, 424 U.S. 648, 663 n.18 ( 1976); United States v. Snipes, 611 F.3d 855, 
867 (11th Cir. 20 IO); United States v. Farber, 630 F.2d 569, 572 (8th Cir. 1980). 
Thus, a senior executive official who refuses to provide privileged information or who 
refuses to testify based on a good-faith belief that their legal position is one that is required and 
supported by lawful authority does not "willfully" default on a congress ional subpoena. Because 
their claim of privilege is in good faith, they lack the necessary ill-intent to satisfy the statutory 
language. This is unlike a case where an individual intentionally defies a lawful subpoena on the 
advice of counsel. See e.g., Licavoli v. United States, 294 F.2d 207 (D.C. Cir. 1961); Fields v. 
United States, 164 F.2d 97, 100 (D.C. Cir. 1947). An executive official who raises a good-faith  8 
All Members of the Select Committee to Investigate the 
January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
December 13, 2021 
Page 6 
claim of privilege is not defying a lawful duty, but rather is complying with one. Executive 
officials are not free to unilaterally waive executive privilege and are therefore not free to comply 
with subpoenas seeking privileged information absent an unequivocal waiver from the owner of 
the privilege or direction from a court order. Their choice to comply with their constitutional and 
legal obligations does not constitute willful default under§ 192. 
A referral and conviction in such a case would simply be unjust. An executive branch 
official who makes a colorable claim of privilege is simply taking the course they believe the law 
requires them to take. The executive privilege and testimonial immunity do not belong to 
individual executive officials and they are not free to waive it. It would be unjust to refer such an 
official for prosecution before a court even has a chance to pass upon the merits of their claims. 
Doing so could easily result in referring an official who correctly asserted privilege and properly 
upheld their duty to the federal government. Instead, Congress should at least wait until the courts 
determine that privilege is inapplicabl e or invalid before referring the official for criminal 
contempt.3 
We recognize and do not dispute that the violence and interference with the processes of 
our democratic institutions as occurred on January 6, 2021, were deplorable and unjustifiable 
events. But the real strength of our democratic institutions comes from the principles that 
undergird them, and no singular event can justify overrunning centuries-old safeguards of the 
republic. Mr. Meadows's choice to decline a deposition is an attempt to comply with his legal 
obligations as a former advisor to the president. History and the law teach that this attempt is not 
a crime. 
The Committee and the House should refrain from referring Mr. Meadows to the 
Department of Justice for prosecution under Section 192. 
3 As the Comminee knows, Mr. Meadows has initiated a proceeding to obtain an answer to this very question. See 
Meadows v. Pelosi, No. I :2 l-cv-03217 (D.D.C.).  9 
Chairman T HOMPSON . A small group of people have gotten a lot 
of attention because of their defiance, but many others have taken 
a different path and provided important information about January 6th and the context in which the riot occurred. Anyone who wants to cooperate with our investigation can do so. Nearly everyone has. 
Our democracy was inches from ruin. Our system of government 
was stretched to the breaking point. Members and staff were ter-
rorized. Police officers fought hand-to-hand for hours. People lost their lives. 
The Select Committee recently toured the Capitol and saw first- 
hand what our brave Capitol Police had to endure and heard them say: Had it not been for the Metropolitan Police’s timely arrival, All Members of the Select Committee to Investigate the 
January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
December 13, 2021 
Page 7 
cc: George J. T e1williger ill 
Counsel for Mr. Meadows  10 
the rioters would have succeeded. God only knows what the out-
come would have been if that had occurred. 
We want to figure out why and share that information with the 
American people, and either you are on the side of helping us fig-ure out why or you are trying to stop us from getting those an-swers. You can parade out whatever argument you want, but really that is all there is to it. In real life, there aren’t a lot of bright- line moments. This is one of them. 
If you are listening at home, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Bannon, Mr. 
Clark, I want you to know this: History will be written about these times, about the work this Committee has undertaken, and history will not look upon any of you as martyrs. History will not look upon you as a victim. History will not dwell on your long list of privilege claims or your legal sleight of hand. 
History will record that, in a critical moment in our democracy, 
most people were on the side of finding the truth, of providing ac-countability, of strengthening our system for future generations. History will also record in this critical moment that some people were not, that some people hid behind excuses, went to great lengths to avoid answering questions and explaining what they had done and what they knew. I predict that history won’t be kind to those people. 
What is especially jarring about the referral we are considering 
tonight is that Mr. Meadows was a Member of this body for more than 7 years. He was a leading voice in certain corners, even brief-ly the Ranking Member of the Oversight and Reform Committee. 
It is not hard to locate records of his time in the House and find 
a Mr. Meadows full of indignation because, at the time, a prior ad-ministration wasn’t cooperating with a congressional investigation to his satisfaction. 
Whatever legacy he thought he left in the House, this is his leg-
acy now: His former colleagues singling him out for criminal pros-ecution because he wouldn’t answer questions about what he knows about a brutal attack on our democracy. That is his legacy. But he hasn’t left us any choice. Mr. Meadows put himself in this situation, and he must now accept the consequences. 
So I will support the Select Committee’s adoption of this report 
recommending the House cite Mark Randall Meadows for contempt of Congress and refer him to the Department of Justice for prosecu-tion. 
I will now recognize our distinguished leader of the Select Com-
mittee, Ms. Cheney of Wyoming, for any opening remarks she cares to make. 
Vice Chair C
HENEY . Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 
We are here to address a very serious matter: Contempt of Con-
gress by a former chief of staff to a former President of the United States. We do not do this lightly, and, indeed, we had hoped not to take this step at all. 
For weeks, as the Chairman noted, we worked with Mr. 
Meadows’s counsel to reach an agreement on cooperation. But, shortly before his scheduled deposition, Mr. Meadows walked away from his commitment to appear and informed us he would no longer cooperate.  11 
We believe Mr. Meadows is improperly asserting executive and 
other privileges, but this vote on contempt today relates principally to Mr. Meadows’s refusal to testify about text messages and other communications that he admits are not privileged. He has not claimed and does not have any privilege basis to refuse entirely to testify regarding these topics. 
Let me give just three examples. First, President Trump’s failure to stop the violence. On January 
6th, our Capitol Building was attacked and invaded. The mob was summoned to Washington by President Trump, and, as many of those involved have admitted on videotape, in social media, and in Federal district court, they were provoked to violence by President Trump’s false claims that the election was stolen. 
The violence was evident to all. It was covered in real time by 
almost every news channel. But, for 187 minutes, President Trump refused to act, when action by our President was required, essen-tial, and, indeed, compelled by his oath to our Constitution. 
Mr. Meadows received numerous text messages, which he has 
produced without any privilege claim, imploring that Mr. Trump take the specific action we all knew his duty required. These text messages leave no doubt: The White House knew exactly what was happening here at the Capitol. 
Members of Congress, the press, and others wrote to Mark Mead-
ows as the attack was under way. One text Mr. Meadows received said, ‘‘We are under siege here at the Capitol.’’ Another: ‘‘They have breached the Capitol.’’ In a third: ‘‘Mark, protesters are literally storming the Capitol, breaking windows on doors, rushing in. Is Trump going to say something?’’ A fourth: ‘‘There is an armed standoff at the House Chamber door.’’ And another from someone inside the Capitol: ‘‘We are all helpless.’’ 
Dozens of texts, including from Trump administration officials, 
urged immediate action by the President: ‘‘POTUS has to come out firmly and tell the protesters to dissipate. Someone is going to get killed.’’ In another: ‘‘Mark, he needs to stop this now.’’ A third, in all caps: ‘‘TELL THEM TO GO HOME.’’ A fourth, and I quote: ‘‘POTUS needs to calm this shit down.’’ 
Indeed, according to the records, multiple Fox News hosts knew 
the President needed to act immediately. They texted Mr. Mead-ows, and he has turned over those texts: ‘‘Mark, the President needs to tell people in the Capitol to go home. This is hurting all of us. He is destroying his legacy,’’ Laura Ingraham wrote. ‘‘Please, get him on TV. Destroying everything you have accomplished,’’ Brian Kilmeade texted. ‘‘Can he make a statement? Ask people to leave the Capitol,’’ Sean Hannity urged. 
As the violence continued, one of the President’s sons texted Mr. 
Meadows: ‘‘He’s got to condemn this shit ASAP. The Capitol Police tweet is not enough,’’ Donald Trump, Jr., texted. Meadows re-sponded, ‘‘I’m pushing it hard. I agree.’’ Still, President Trump did not immediately act. 
Donald Trump, Jr., texted again and again, urging action by the 
President: ‘‘We need an Oval Office address. He has to lead now. It has gone too far and gotten out of hand.’’ But hours passed with-out necessary action by the President.  12 
These nonprivileged texts are further evidence of President 
Trump’s supreme dereliction of duty during those 187 minutes. Mr. Meadows’ testimony will bear on another key question before this Committee: Did Donald Trump, through action or inaction, cor-ruptly seek to obstruct or impede Congress’s official proceedings to count electoral votes? 
Mark Meadows’s testimony is necessary to inform our legislative 
judgments, yet he has refused to give any testimony at all, even regarding nonprivileged topics. 
He is in contempt of Congress. Mr. Meadows also has knowledge regarding President Trump’s 
efforts to persuade State officials to alter their official election re-sults. In Georgia, for instance, Mr. Meadows participated on a phone call between President Trump and Georgia Secretary of State Raffensperger. Meadows was on the phone when President Trump asked the secretary of state to: ‘‘find 11,780 votes’’ to change the results of the Presidential election in Georgia. 
We know from the texts Mr. Meadows has turned over that, at 
the time of that call, he appears to have been texting other partici-pants on the call. 
Again, Mr. Meadows has no conceivable privilege basis to refuse 
to testify on this topic. He is in contempt of Congress. 
Third, in the weeks before January 6th, President Trump’s ap-
pointees at the Justice Department informed him repeatedly that the President’s claims of election fraud were not supported by the evidence and that the election was not, in fact, stolen. President Trump intended to appoint Jeffrey Clark as Attorney General in part so that Mr. Clark could alter the Department of Justice’s con-clusions regarding the election. 
Mr. Clark has informed this Committee that he anticipates po-
tential criminal prosecution related to these matters and intends in upcoming testimony to invoke his Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination. 
As Mr. Meadows’s nonprivileged texts reveal, Meadows commu-
nicated multiple times with a Member of Congress who was work-ing with Mr. Clark. Mr. Meadows has no basis to refuse to testify regarding those communications. He is in contempt. 
January 6th was without precedent. There has been no stronger 
case in our Nation’s history for a congressional investigation into the actions of a former President. 
This investigation is not like other congressional inquiries. Our 
Constitution, the structure of our institutions, and the rule of law, which are at the heart of what makes America great, are at stake. 
We cannot be satisfied with incomplete answers or half-truths, 
and we cannot surrender to President Trump’s efforts to hide what happened. We will be persistent, professional, and nonpartisan, and we will get to the objective truth to ensure that January 6th never happens again. 
I yield back. 
Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentlewoman yields back. 
Pursuant to notice, I now call up the Report on a Resolution Rec-
ommending That the House of Representatives Find Mark Randall Meadows in Contempt of Congress for Refusal to Comply With a  13 
* For the text of the report, see Appendix. Subpoena Duly Issued by the Select Committee to Investigate the 
January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol. 
The report was circulated in advance, and printed copies are 
available. 
The clerk shall designate the report. [The clerk designated the report.] Chairman T
HOMPSON . Without objection, the report* will be con-
sidered as read and open to amendment at any point. 
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from California, Ms. Lof-
gren. 
Ms. L OFGREN . Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
Like all of us on this Committee, I knew and served with Mark 
Meadows when he was in the House. We got along reasonably well when he was here, although we certainly didn’t agree on many pol-icy matters. I wished him well when he left Congress to go serve as the chief of staff to then-President Donald Trump in 2020. 
But it is shocking that we now have to face the fact that Mr. 
Meadows admits he played both an official and unofficial role in trying to undermine the results of the 2020 Presidential election. 
This Committee’s job is to find out about that plot, the plot which 
led up to the events on January 6th, and to propose legislative changes to prevent something like that from ever happening again. 
Now, it has been reported that, during the lead-up to January 
6th, the White House was directing the Department of Justice to investigate outrageous, really crazy conspiracy theories to try and seed doubt about the election and as a predicate for the over-turning of the election and the replacement of electors. This was to benefit Mr. Trump’s effort to overturn the election. We need to talk to Mark Meadows about that. 
As the Vice Chair has mentioned, Mr. Meadows made a surprise 
visit to the State-run audit in Georgia which preceded the infa-mous call that she recited where the then-President asked the sec-retary of state to go find votes. We need to talk to Mark Meadows about that. 
Mr. Meadows interacted with a lot of people, allegedly including 
some of our own colleagues, on the day of the violent attack, and we have learned that many of those interactions took place on a personal cell phone device. So we need to ask Mark Meadows about that. 
Mr. Meadows himself has acknowledged that he has responsive 
and nonprivileged documents and communications. He sent some of them to us; he filed others in court. It certainly appears that Mr. Meadows played a key role in events that culminated in the violent attack on the Capitol and on our democracy. He has important in-formation about those events, and he must follow the law and co-operate with this Committee’s lawful request or face the con-sequences. 
That is why, much as we might personally like Mr. Meadows, we 
have to take this action today, because no one is above the law. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentlewoman yields back. 
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Illinois, Mr. Kinzinger.  14 
Mr. K INZINGER . Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
This is a near-unique moment in history, as we vote on whether 
to hold a former colleague in contempt of Congress. The last time that happened was 1832. 
Mark Meadows has committed a crime—in this case, a premedi-
tated one. He thought carefully about his actions and actively chose to stonewall, which you can clearly see in his back-and-forth with the Select Committee. 
First, he produced over 9,000 pages of documents from his time 
in the White House. Then, after his former boss made clear his dis-appointment and displeasure, he did a 180 and he refused to an-swer even a single question from his former colleagues or even to show up at all. 
This constitutes legal contempt but also personal contempt. Mark 
Meadows’s actions demonstrate his contempt for Congress, for the Select Committee, for his former colleagues, and for the integrity of the democratic process. 
He has clearly rejected this Committee’s investigation, so now it 
is time to see whether the Department of Justice can be more per-suasive. No one is above the law, not even a former President’s chief of staff. 
In a nation of laws, you cannot have it both ways. He can’t de-
cline to tell his story to Congress and, on the very same day, pub-lish part of that story in a book to line his pockets. He can’t decline to answer any questions on the many nonprivileged documents he produced to us. He can’t unspeak what he has said and call it privi-leged after the fact. 
It is perfectly conceivable that portions of what a President’s 
chief of staff knows is subject to a Presidential privilege, shielding it from disclosure. But it is also true that not everything he knew or did during that period is privileged. Mark Meadows knows that. It is why he sent us the documents he did and what made his book possible. 
That is why the law required him to show up for his deposition 
and to specify in response to each question what the answer was and whether or not that answer, in fact, was privileged from disclo-sure. 
His refusal to comply with the direction of Congress, stated 
plainly on the face of the Select Committee’s subpoena, is a display of his contempt for Congress, which now forces us to sadly have to take this action. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentleman yields back. 
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California, Mr. Schiff. Mr. S
CHIFF . Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
I want to pick up where Mr. Kinzinger left off. Nine thousand 
pages of records—that is what Mr. Meadows has turned over, records over which Mr. Meadows himself has asserted no claim of privilege. None. These include thousands of text messages span-ning the months before election day—between election day and the end of the former President’s term in office. 
Of these documents, I am particularly struck by messages that 
come from lawmakers who were sending them to Mr. Meadows in the days around January 6th, a time period he is now saying he  15 
won’t discuss with the Committee. I want to display just a few of 
the messages he received from people in Congress. The Committee is not naming these lawmakers at this time, as our investigation is ongoing. 
If we could cue the first graphic. This one reads, ‘‘On January 6, 2021, Vice President Mike Pence, 
as President of the Senate, should call out all electoral votes that he believes are unconstitutional as no electoral votes at all.’’ 
You can see why this is so critical to ask Mr. Meadows about— 
about a lawmaker suggesting that the former Vice President sim-ply throw out votes that he unilaterally deems unconstitutional in order to overturn a Presidential election and subvert the will of the American people. 
Here is another from January 6th as the riot was ongoing. If we could cue the second graphic. ‘‘The President needs to stop this ASAP.’’ On the 6th, Mr. Meadows received dozens upon dozens of pan-
icked messages like this one from lawmakers and others trapped on Capitol Hill, from people watching at home begging that the White House—that the President of the United States—do some-thing to stop the violence. 
How did Meadows react to these cries for help? Whom did he 
tell? What did he do? Critically, what did the President of the United States do, and what did he fail to do? Mr. Meadows doesn’t think he should have to answer those questions. He wants the American people to be left in the dark. 
Here is the last message I want to highlight, again from a law-
maker in the aftermath of January 6th. 
If we could cue graphic No. 3. ‘‘Yesterday was a terrible day. We tried everything we could in 
our objection to the six States. I’m sorry nothing worked.’’ 
The day after a failed attempt to stop the peaceful transfer of 
power through violence, an elected lawmaker tells the White House chief of staff, ‘‘I’m sorry nothing worked.’’ That is chilling. We would like to ask Mr. Meadows what he thought about that. 
Mr. Meadows’s behavior and his refusal to do his moral duty 
shows why we need stronger tools to enforce congressional sub-poenas. It is an issue I have worked on for years. 
But, in the absence of those changes, we will use the tools that 
we have. I expect the Justice Department to move as swiftly in dealing with Mr. Meadows as it did with Mr. Bannon and pros-ecute him for violating the law and his duty as a citizen. 
I support advancing this contempt referral, Mr. Chairman, and 
I yield back. 
Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentleman yields back. 
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California, Mr. 
Aguilar. 
Mr. A GUILAR . Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
Last Tuesday, December 7th, the Select Committee received a 
letter from Mr. Meadows’s lawyer telling us that his client’s ap-pearance for the deposition had become—and I am quoting—‘‘un-tenable.’’ 
Something else happened last Tuesday: ‘‘The Chief’s Chief’’ hit 
the bookstores, Mr. Meadows’s memoir.  16 
Remember, this is a witness who is refusing to comply with the 
law and answer our questions in part because, he says, the former President has instructed him to do so. He says he was the chief of staff and he couldn’t possibly disclose his conversations with the former President. 
But let’s take a look at the book. This is from a section dealing 
with the January 6th rally at the Ellipse. I am going put this quote up here on the screens. I am not going to read the whole thing, be-cause we all know what the President said publicly that day, but I want to read this part: 
‘‘When he got offstage, President Trump let me know that he had been speaking 
metaphorically about the walk to the Capitol. He knew as well as anyone that we couldn’t organize a trip like that on such short notice.’’ 
This is interesting because the Select Committee has a lot of 
questions about what the President said and did on January 6th. We have a lot of questions about the protests that day and how they escalated into a riot. Mark Meadows says he can’t discuss those details with us. But, apparently, he can put them in his book. 
He can also discuss them on television. Just weeks after January 
6th, Mr. Meadows discussed his interactions with the former Presi-dent in an interview with Laura Ingraham. Ms. Ingraham asked 
him, ‘‘At any time, did the President of the United States want to or seek to interfere with the vote counting of legitimate votes of the election?’’ He was happy to answer her question. 
Fast forward to last week: Mr. Meadows is back on TV, a number 
of times, discussing conversations with the President about secu-rity concerns on January 6th. We had questions about that too. We had questions about his emails that focused on protecting, ‘‘pro- Trump people.’’ 
He will share details about his interactions with the former 
President with Laura Ingraham. He will share the details with Sean Hannity. He will share details with anyone who will shell out 25 bucks for his book. But, in the face of a lawful subpoena from the Select Committee as we work to get answers for the American people, the only thing Mr. Meadows will share are his excuses. 
We don’t accept his excuses. He must be held accountable. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentleman yields back. 
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Florida, Mrs. Mur-
phy. 
Mrs. M URPHY . Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
In a few moments, I will vote to recommend that the House find 
former White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows in contempt of Congress for failing to comply with our Committee’s subpoena for documents and testimony related to the January 6th attack. 
Mr. Meadows was a central participant in the events that cul-
minated in this assault on our Capitol, our country, and our core democratic values. To create the most accurate account of what oc-curred, why it occurred, and what specific steps we can take to pre-vent it from occurring again, our Committee needs to hear from Mr. Meadows. 
The Supreme Court once observed that a subpoena is not ‘‘an in-
vitation to a game of Hare and Hounds in which the witness must testify only if cornered at the end of the chase.’’ Yet, as detailed  17 
in the underlying report, it is clear to any reasonable observer that 
Mr. Meadows has treated this Committee’s request for relevant in-formation as if it were a game. 
To read the record of how Mr. Meadows has responded to our 
subpoena issued in late September is to come away exhausted, ex-asperated, and just enraged. Any regular citizen who flouted a con-gressional or court subpoena like Mr. Meadows would have faced serious legal consequences and rightly so. 
This is not a witness who has acted in good faith, generally will-
ing to tell his side of the story while declining to disclose certain information based on clear and colorable assertions of legal privi-lege. To the contrary, Mr. Meadows initially delayed, resisted, and made unreasonable legal arguments, failed to produce documents in a timely fashion, and refused to appear for a scheduled deposi-tion. 
Then he had an apparent change of heart and pledged his co-
operation, leading to the production of about 9,000 emails and text messages. Then he reversed course yet again, categorically refusing to be deposed about what those documents reveal. 
In summary, Mr. Meadows’s tactics have wasted the Committee’s 
time and taxpayer-funded resources. He has left us with incomplete and inadequate information about what he did and what he knows and hindered our effort to find the truth. 
It bears emphasis that the documents Mr. Meadows ultimately 
turned over raise as many questions as they answer. For example, the documents confirm that Mr. Meadows used personal Gmail ac-counts and a personal cell phone to conduct official business and to send communications related to January 6th and that he also used Signal, the private messenger application. 
Had Mr. Meadows been deposed under oath, the Committee 
would have asked him about his handling of official Government records, a topic that is not subject to any conceivable legal privi-lege. This is a critical line of inquiry because we need to know if Mr. Meadows did not properly preserve all of his official emails, texts, and messages and provide them to the National Archives, as required by law. 
After all, our Committee has requested and will hopefully soon 
receive a wide range of Trump administration records from the Na-tional Archives. We need to know whether the universe of records in the Archives’ possession is complete and comprehensive. 
Understanding Mr. Meadows’s compliance with Federal record- 
keeping laws will help ensure that our Committee ultimately re-ceives all of the relevant documents we are entitled to review as part of our fact-finding mission. 
As a result of his actions and inactions, Mr. Meadows is clearly 
in contempt of Congress and should be referred to the Department of Justice for criminal prosecution. 
I yield back. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentlewoman yields back. 
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Maryland, Mr. Raskin. Mr. R
ASKIN . Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
Mr. Meadows’s sudden vanishing act is intolerable to the rule of 
law and to the work of our Committee. Imagine how our justice  18 
system would break down if any witness could decide to stop co-
operating midway through a proceeding. 
The 9,000 pages that Mr. Meadows has produced in disclosed 
documents, without asserting any kind of privilege, put him in the thick of the action with Donald Trump as the Capitol was overrun by violent insurrectionists and as Trump and others tried to over-throw Joe Biden’s majority in the electoral college by exerting coer-cive pressure on Vice President Pence. 
We are getting a comprehensive portrait of what took place on 
January 6th, but Mr. Meadows’s testimony is very significant for us. 
Mr. Chairman, the Committee has bent over backward to accom-
modate Mr. Meadows’s requests. It is now clear that he has no in-tention of complying with this subpoena, even when his testimony could have no theoretical connection to an executive privilege claim. 
For example, he is categorically refusing to show up to testify 
about 9,000 pages of documents he has already turned over to the Committee and for which he has, thus, nullified any hypothetical assertions of executive privilege. 
He is refusing to testify about statements he has made in his 
book, published last week, and in the media about the events of January 6th. This is again another category of statements where any conceivable executive privilege claim that could be invoked by President Biden or asserted by former President Trump has al-ready been deliberately abrogated and waived by Mr. Meadows. 
This witness must testify, like 300 other witnesses before him 
have done, either voluntarily and proudly as a patriotic citizen or at least under compulsion of subpoena by the Congress of the United States. But he has no right anywhere in our constitutional system to defy a subpoena from the House of Representatives. 
If anyone we have called as a witness knows in his bones that 
he must testify before our Committee, it is Mr. Meadows himself. Repeatedly through his career in Congress, he insisted that even high-ranking executive branch officials must comply with congres-sional subpoenas for documents, information, and testimony. 
In the last administration, multiple times, Mr. Meadows found 
high-ranking officials hiding information from Congress, with-holding relevant documents, or, ‘‘even outright ignoring congres-sional subpoenas.’’ 
He said this at one point: ‘‘This level of conduct, paired with the 
failure to even feign an interest in transparency, is reprehensible. Whether you are a Republican or a Democrat, this kind of obstruc-tion is wrong, period. For 9 months we have warned them con-sequences were coming, and for 9 months we have heard the same excuses, backed up by the same unacceptable conduct. Time is up, and the consequences are here.’’ 
A subpoenaed witness cannot thwart Article I congressional 
power and process simply by filing an Article III lawsuit. The Meadows lawsuit against individual Members of this Committee is extremely dubious in light of the Speech or Debate Clause and other major constitutional roadblocks. Its substantive allegations are clearly frivolous, such as his central absurd claim that Con-gress has no legitimate purpose in investigating and reporting on  19 
a violent attack on our Capitol, our Presidential election, and the 
peaceful transfer of power. 
If we have no legitimate legislative purpose in investigating a 
violent insurrection against our own Government, well, then, we simply have no legitimate legislative purposes at all. If this inves-tigation is not necessary and proper to everything else we are doing in Congress, then the Constitution has been hollowed out by official lawlessness and a shocking collapse in critical-thinking skills. 
Meadows’s last-minute suit is plainly a tactic to delay and ob-
struct our investigation, and it need not detain us any longer, Mr. Chairman. We have received overwhelming cooperation and partici-pation from Americans who can help us piece together this shock-ing sequence of events, and we have a duty to collect all of the evi-dence we need to report back to Congress and to the American peo-ple on a matter of the utmost gravity and importance to the future of American democracy. 
I favor this resolution to proceed with criminal contempt. I yield back to you, Mr. Chairman. Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentleman yields back. 
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Virginia, Mrs. 
Luria. 
Mrs. L URIA . Thank you, Mr. Chair, Madam Vice Chair, and my 
fellow Committee Members. 
As many of us have echoed this evening, we do not take this vote 
lightly, but this Committee and this Congress is left with no other alternative when, in the midst of an investigation of this mag-nitude, we are stonewalled at every turn by those who played a central role in the planning and execution of the January 6th at-tack. 
We have a detailed picture of the attack and the events leading 
up to it. Our Committee has heard from almost 300 people, we have received more than 30,000 pages of documents, and we con-tinue to follow up every day on the more than 250 tips received through our tip line. 
Let’s be very clear about Mr. Meadows’s role and why his testi-
mony is so important. 
In the course of our investigation, we have heard from individ-
uals involved in the planning of the rallies that immediately pre-ceded the violent attack on the Capitol, and we know some of those people were in direct contact with Mr. Meadows. We want to ask him about that. 
We have heard from former White House staffers who are help-
ing us understand what was going on in the White House in the time leading up to January 6th. Mr. Meadows was the chief of staff in the White House, so we want to ask him about that. 
We have heard from officials at the Justice Department who 
were on the receiving end of instructions to amplify unsupported claims about the outcome of the election. Mr. Meadows was inte-gral in those efforts, so we want to ask him about that. 
We have heard from State-level officials about the pressure cam-
paigns and the relentless public attacks on democracy in Arizona, Michigan, and Georgia. But Mr. Meadows actually went to Georgia in connection with the recount effort. The Committee and the American people must hear from him about that.  20 
We are investigating an attempt, as one rioter put it, to over-
throw the Government. The fate of our Republic has never faced a threat as acute and as imminent as we face today and that we are looking into through this investigation. 
The extent of this effort reached the highest levels of our Govern-
ment, and it runs right through Mr. Meadows. Anything less than his full cooperation further enables the erosion of our Constitution, our democratic institutions, and the rule of law. 
I join my colleagues in urging an ‘‘aye’’ vote on this resolution, 
and I yield back. 
Chairman T
HOMPSON . The gentlewoman yields back. 
If there is no further debate, I now recognize the gentlewoman 
from Wyoming, Ms. Cheney, for a motion. 
Vice Chair C HENEY . Mr. Chairman, I move that the Committee 
favorably report to the House the Committee’s Report on a Resolu-
tion Recommending That the House of Representatives Find Mark Randall Meadows in Contempt of Congress for Refusal to Comply With a Subpoena Duly Issued by the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol. 
Chairman T
HOMPSON . The question is on the motion to favorably 
report to the House. 
Those in favor, say ‘‘aye’’. Those opposed, say ‘‘no’’. In the opinion of the Chair, the ayes have it. Vice Chair C
HENEY . Mr. Chairman, I request a recorded vote. 
Chairman T HOMPSON . A recorded vote is requested. The clerk 
will call the roll. 
[The clerk called the roll, and the result was announced as fol-
lows:] 
Select Committee Rollcall No. 3 
Motion by Ms. Cheney to Favorably Report 
Agreed to: 9 ayes to 0 noes 
Members Vote 
Ms. Cheney, Vice Chair ............................................................................... Aye 
Ms. Lofgren .................................................................................................. Aye Mr. Schiff ..................................................................................................... Aye Mr. Aguilar ................................................................................................... Aye Mrs. Murphy (FL) ......................................................................................... Aye Mr. Raskin ................................................................................................... Aye Mrs. Luria .................................................................................................... Aye Mr. Kinzinger ................................................................................................ Aye Mr. Thompson (MS), Chairman ................................................................... Aye 
Chairman T HOMPSON . The motion is agreed to. 
The Vice Chair is recognized. Vice Chair C
HENEY . Mr. Chairman, pursuant to clause 2(l) of 
rule XI, I request that Members have 2 calendar days in which to file with the clerk of the Committee supplemental or additional views on the measure ordered reported by the Committee tonight.  21 
Chairman T HOMPSON . So ordered. 
Without objection, staff is authorized to make any necessary 
technical or conforming changes to the report to reflect the actions of the Committee. 
There being no further business, without objection, the Select 
Committee stands adjourned. 
[Whereupon, at 7:47 p.m., the Select Committee was adjourned.]   (23) A P P E N D I X  24 
REPORT ON A RESOLUTION RECOMMENDING THAT THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES  
FINDMARK RANDALL MEADOWS IN CONTEMPT OF CONGRESS FOR REFUSAL TO COM-
PLYWITH A SUBPOENA DULY ISSUED BY THE SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE  
THE JANUARY 6THATTACK ON THE UNITED STATES CAPITOL . 
House Calendar No. 
117TH CONGRESS l ( 1st Session HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES REPORT 
117~ 
RESOLUTION RECOMMENDING THAT THE HOUSE OF REPRESEN TATIVES 
FIND MARK RANDALL MEADOWS IN CONTEMP T Of<' CONGRESS FOR RE­
FUSAL TO COMPLY WITH A SUBPOENA DULY ISSUED BY THE SELECT 
COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE 
UNITED STATES CAPITOL 
DECEMBER 13, 2021.-Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed 
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, from the Select Committee to Inves­
tigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, 
submitted the following 
REPORT 
The Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on 
the United States Capitol, having considered this Report, reports 
favorably thereon and recommends that the Report be approved. 
The form of the Resolution that the Select Committee to Inves­
tigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol would 
d~IIM~:di}: f:\~~:pffofd::;;st:~~~::;~tc~~~~i~~~o~:~~ 
as follows: 
Resolved, That Mark Randall Meadows shall be found to be in 
contempt of Congress for failure to comply with a congressional 
subpoena. 
Resolved, That pursuant to 2 U.S.C. §§ 192 and 194, the Speaker 
of the House of Representatives shall certify the report of the Se­
lect Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the 
United States Capitol, detailing the refusal of Mark Randall Mead­
ows to appear for a deposition before the Select Committee to In­
vestigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol as 
directed by subpoena, to the United States Attorney for the District 
of Columbia, to the end that Mr. Meadows be proceeded against in 
the manner and form provided by law. 
Resolved, That the Speaker of the House shall otherwise take all 
appropriate action to enforce the subpoena.  25 
CONTENTS 
se and Summary ................................................. . 
on the Select Committee's Investigation 
eConsideration 
eVotes ....................... . 
ee Oversight Pindings 
C.B.O. Estimate ................................................................... . 
Statement of General Performance Goals and Objective s ............................ ........ . 
Appendix .................................. .................................................................................. . 
PURPOSE AND SUMMARY 
On January 6, 2021, a violent mob breached the security perim­
eter of the United States Capitol, assaulted and injured scores of 
police officers, engaged in hand-to-hand violence with those officers 
over an extended period, terrorized Members of Congress and staff, 
and invaded and occupied the Capitol building, all in an effort to 
halt the lawful counting of electoral votes and reverse the results 
of the 2020 election. In the words of many of those who partici­
pated in the violence, the attack was a direct response to state-
~:hts 2gfot~~d-~~~t~~?~g~h~~~~t ·JJ~;iys~~~~t~tt:t° th~eit~g 
election had been stolen by corrupted voting machines, widespread 
fraud, and otherwise. 
In response, the House adopted House Resolution 503 on June 
30, 2021, establishing the Select Committee to Investigate the Jan­
uary 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (hereinafter referred 
to as the "Select Committee"). 
The Select Committee is investigating the facts, circumstances, 
and causes of the January 6th attack and issues relating to the 
peaceful transfer of power, in order to identify how the events of 
January 6th were planned, what actions and statements motivated 
and contributed to the attack on the Capitol, how the violent riot 
that day was coordinated with a political and public relations strat­
egy to reverse the election outcome, and why Capitol security was 
insufficient to address what occurred. The Select Committee will 
evaluate all facets of these issues, create a public record of what 
occurred, and recomme nd to the House, and its relevant commit­
tees, corrective laws, policies, procedures, rules, or regulations. 
According to documents and testimony obtained by the Select 
Committee, Mark Randall Meadows is uniquely situated to provide 
critical information about the events of January 6, 2021, as well as 
efforts taken by public officials and private individuals to spread 
the message of widespread fraud in the November 2020 election 
and to delay or prevent the peaceful transfer of power. Mr. Mead­
ows served as chief of staff to President Trump during the final 
year of the Trump administrat ion. As detailed in public reporting, 
Mr. Meadows was with or in the vicinity of then-President Trump 
on January 6 as Mr. Trump learned about the attack on the U.S. 
Capitol and decided whether to issue a statement that could help 
to stop the rioters. 1 
Mr. Meadows has refused to provide the Select Committee with 
information and testimony that has no conceivable, associated 
'Jonathan Karl, Be/royal: The Final Act o{lhe Trump Show, (New York: Dutton, 2021), pp. 
297-299.  26 
privilege claims. To complete its investigation, the Select Com­
mittee needs access to testimony on this non-privileged informa­
tion. The Select Committee offers here just several examples: Mr. 
Meadows has refused to provide testimony on the document s he 
himself produced to the Select Committee without any claim of 
privilege; Mr. Meadows has refused to provide testimony about his 
reported communications with organizers of various protest events 
before January 6, 2021;2 Mr. Meadows personally travelled to 
~:~~~~/ihi;si:.~~t C~~~ftt:~d~ta~e~:\ete~n t~~l:r:t~~f:f~l t:~~t 
mony from Mr. Meadows about these events;3 and Mr. Meadows 
has also denied the Select Committee the opportunity to question 
him about a call with Georgia State officials in which Mr. Trump 
insisted that he had won Georgia and told the Georgia secretary 
of state that he wanted to "find" enough votes to ensure his vic­
tory.4 Yet another topic on which Mr. Meadows has frustrated the 
Select Committee 's investigative efforts relates to the Select Com­
mittee's attempt to locate and discover highly relevant documents. 
Based on Mr. Meadows's production of documents and recently re­
ported information, it appears that Mr. Meadows may not have 
complied with legal requirem ents to retain or archive documents 
under the Presidential Records Act.5 He has denied the Select 
Committee the opportunity to question him about these cir­
cumstances so that the Select Committee can fully understand the 
location of highly relevant materials to its investigation and which 
materials may now be lost to the historical record. 
To be clear, Mr. Meadows's failure to comply, and this contempt 
recommendation, are not based on good-faith disagreements over 
privilege assertions. Rather, Mr. Meadows has failed to comply and 
warrants contempt findings because he has wholly refused to ap­
pear to provide any testimony and refused to answer questions re­
garding even clearly non-privileged information-information that 
he himself has identified as non-privileged through his own docu• 
ment production. 
Mr. Meadows's relevant documents and testimony are necessary 
to the Select Committee's investigation for many additional rea­
sons. Mr. Meadows also reportedly participated in meetings and 
communicated with senior Department of Justice (DOJ) officials 
about unsupported election-fraud claims and litigation aimed at 
disrupting or overturning the election results.6 Mr. Meadows re­
portedly participated in a contentious meeting at the White House 
ta~~uug:;t"~~i~~e,,;;:~ti~d~1~~;J:~.l~td1~hC!Jda1=1:~ thiottt!l'#r';.:ir:i!~·. ~r~:e ~t 
2021), available at httpsJ/www.propublica.or g/article/new-details-~uggest-senior·trump-aides­
knew•jan-6 -rally--rould -get-chaotic 
3Joe Walsh, "Trump Chief of Staff Ob!>erves Georgia County's Ballot Audit Amid Ongoing 
Baseless Fraud Claims,~ Forbes, (Dee. 22, 2020), available at httpsJ/www.forbes.comlsit.e s/ 
joowalshl'l020/12122/trump-chief-o f-st.aff-observes-goorgia-countys-ballot-audit-amid-ongoing­
baseless-fraud-cla,ms/'?sh=379r2627b411. 
4"Here's ihe full transcript and audio of the call between Trun)P and Raffenspe!jer, " Wa~h-
~~'#i;s:,?;~;-ci1i~;an;ri!~~rgia;_~~~Q2~0Jo\{fi8/~'r;~~~~~•-1~;.r~t~~C4!'~kfs~~p-
story.html. 
6 Nicholas Wu. Kyle Cheney, and Josh Gerstein, MNntional Archives: Meadows may nol have 
~1tr~l~:i~J:!~~~J;s~~~~~~1t~t~~~;i~~;~~l¥~reai;,::er8:,::i:::: 
and His Allies Pressured OOJ ta Overturn 'J'..e 2020 Ele.:tion," {Oct. 7, 2021) eSenate Report"), 
at pp. 4, 5, 14, 29-39; Documents on file with the Sele.:t Committee.  27 
with private individuals and others linked to Mr. Trump's re-elec­
tion campaign during which Mr. Trump and others discussed seiz­
ing voting machines and invoking certain laws including the Na­
tional Emergencies Act for election-re lated purposes because of 
purported fraud in the election.7 Mr. Meadows reportedly joined a 
January 2 call with Mr. Trump and State and Federal officials to 
discuss overturning certain States' electoral college results on Jan­
uary 6,8 and later sent the former Vice President's staff a memo 
drafted by a Trump campaign lawyer urging the Vice President to 
delay or decline the counting of votes from certain States.9 Mr. 
Meadows was also reportedly in contact with at least one of the in­
dividuals who planned and organized a January 6 rally, one of 
whom may have expressed safety concerns to Mr. Meadows about 
the event.10 In short, Mr. Meadows appears to have participated in, 
and been a witness to, critically important communications and 
events that took place before and on January 6, and the Congress 
is entitled to hear his first-hand testimony regarding his actions 
and knowledge. The Select Committee expects such testimony to be 
directly relevant to its report and recommendations for legislative 
and other action. 
On September 23, 2021, the Select Committee issued a subpoena 
to Mr. Meadows for documents and testimony, and transmitted it 
along with a cover letter and schedule to Mr. Meadows's then-coun­
sel, who accepted service on Mr. Meadows's behalf on that same 
day. The subpoena required that Mr. Meadows produce responsive 
documents by October 7, 2021, and that Mr. Meadows appear for 
a deposition on October 15, 2021. After Mr. Meadows retained sep-
~~:~~ c3:and1~~e~h:o ~~1
!bte Chi;~~~~:ei3foe~~d~rsl~~1~h~ ~~~u:~~; 
associated with the subpoena and work with Mr. Meadows. Ulti­
mately, by letter dated October 25, 2021, the Select Committee ac­
commodated Mr. Meadows's interest in moving back the date of his 
appearance and document production and instructed Mr. Meadows 
to produce documents by November 5, 2021, and appear for a depo­
sition on November 12, 2021. 
Mr. Meadows's resistance came after the Select Committee 
agreed to that postponement, after the Select Committee identified 
specific subject matters for inquiry that did not implicate any privi­
lege, and after inviting Mr. Meadows to explain with specificity his 
position as to whether any of those areas would trigger any claims 
of executive privilege. Mr. Meadows provided no such explanation. 
Instead, he declined to produce a single document. He refused to 
carry out the commonly accepted practice of producing a privilege 
log in response to the Select Committee's subpoena. And he failed 
to appear at the scheduled deposition, as ordered by the lawful sub­
poena.  28 
A week after Mr. Meadows failed to appear for his deposition and 
2 weeks after his deadline to produce documents, Mr. Meadows re­
engaged with the Select Committee by letter. The Select Committee 
gave Mr. Meadows an opportunity to cure his previous non-compli­
ance with the Select Committee's subpoena by asking that he 
produce document s and appear at a deposition that, ultimately, 
was scheduled for December 8, 2021. Through counsel, Mr. Mead­
ows agreed. Mr. Meadows produced a large number of responsive 
documents that were not subject to any claim of privilege, while 
withholding many others. But the day before his deposition, Mr. 
Meadows changed course once more and told the Select Committee 
that he would not be attending his deposition after all, even to an­
swer questions about the documents that he agrees are relevant 
and non-privileged that he had just produced. He did this even 
though that very same day his book was released in which he re­
counts specific conversat ions that he had with former-President 
Trump, including conversations about whether the former Presi­
dent planned to join a march to the United States Capitol on Janu­
ary 6 after encouraging rally-goers to do so.11 On December 8, 
2021, Mr. Meadows failed to appear for his deposition. 
Although Mr. Meadows's counsel has referenced claims of testi­
monial immunity and executive privilege purported ly relayed by 
Mr. Trump's counsel, no such claims have been presented by Mr. 
Trump to the Select Committee. Moreover, the current White 
House has informed Mr. Meadows that the incumbent President is 
not asserting claims of testimonial immunity or executive privilege 
to prevent Mr. Meadows from complying with the Select Commit­
tee's subpoena.12 
The Select Committee is confident that there is no conceivable 
immunity or executive privilege claim that could bar all of the Se­
lect Committee's requests or justify Mr. Meadows's blanket refusal 
to appear for the required deposition. Indeed, the Chairman's writ­
ten responses on October 25, 2021, November 5, 2021, and Novem­
ber 11, 2021, addressed the legal arguments raised by Mr. 
Meadows's counsel and made clear that the Select Committee ex­
pected-as the law demands-that Mr. Meadows produce docu­
ments and appear before the Select Committee at his deposition to 
raise any privilege or other concerns regarding specific questions 
on the record of that proceeding. 
The contempt of Congress statute, 2 U.S.C. § 192, provides that 
a witness summoned before Congress must appear or be "deemed 
guilty of a misdemeanor" punishable by a fine of up to $100,000 
and imprisonment for up to 1 year.13 Further, the Supreme Court 
in United States v. Bryan (1950) emphasized that the subpoena 
power is a "public duty, which every person within the jurisdiction 
of the Government is bound to perform when properly sum­
moned."14 The Supreme Court recently reinforced this clear obliga­
tion by stating that "[w)hen Congress seeks information needed for  29 
intelligent legislative action, it unquestionably remains the duty of 
all citizens to cooperate ."15 
Mr. Meadows did not produce documents as required by the sub­
poena's October 7, 2021, deadline or the extended deadline of No­
vember 5, 2021. Similarly, Mr. Meadows did not appear for a depo­
sition scheduled for October 15, 2021, or the extended deadline of 
November 12, 2021, as ordered by the subpoena and in contraven­
tion of the clear instructions by the Select Committee Chairman's 
letters dated October 25, 2021, November 5, 2021, November 9, 
2021, and November 11, 2021, to appear at the deposition and raise 
:~Ior~~t~~ft~e:~~~::nM/nM~~scr;;:ech~s:~~c;~~ ;:;;:!~b~fi~e ~~: 
Select Committee on December 8, 2021, to cure his previous non­
compliance and after specifically agreeing to do so. Mr. Meadows's 
refusal to comply with the Select Committee's subpoena constitutes 
willful default under the law and warrants contempt of Congress 
and referral to the United States Attorney for the District of Co­
lumbia for prosecution as prescribed by law. The denial of the in-
~~~1:~t!~~ :~:'IT~i~:d ~:a:e~bc~~~:i1~fo~~s Congress's central pow-
BACKGROUND ON THE SELECT COMMITIEE'S INVESTIGATION 
House Resolution 503 sets out the specific purposes of the Select 
Committee, including: 
• To investigate and report upon the facts, circumstances, 
and causes "relating to the January 6, 2021, domestic terrorist 
attack upon the United States Capitol Complex"; 
• To investigate and report upon the facts, circumstances, 
and causes "relating to the interference with the peaceful 
transfer of power"; and 
• To investigate and report upon the facts, circumstances, 
and causes relating to "the influencing factors that fomented 
such an attack on American representative democracy while 
engaged in a constitutional process." 
The Supreme Court has long recognized Congress's oversight 
role. "The power of the Congress to conduct investigations is inher­
ent in the legislative process."16 Indeed, Congress's ability to en­
force its investigatory power "is an essential and appropriate auxil­
iary to the legislative function."17 "Absent such a power, a legisla­
tive body could not 'wisely or effectively' evaluate those conditions 
'which the legislation is intended to affect or change.' "18 
The oversight powers of House and Senate committees are also 
codified in law. For example, the Legislative Reorganization Act of 
1946 directed committees to "exercise continuous watchfulness" 
over the executive branch's implementation of programs within its 
jurisdictions, 19 and the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1970 au- 30 
thorized committees to "review and study, on a continuing basis, 
the application, administration, and execution" of laws.20 
2(~h:f t~~~~ ~~:~t~~~e 5Q;,s 1l~ihe8~n:~::!tx;e~equu~~=d b;c:~:~ 
resolution, Members of the Select Committee were selected by the 
Speaker, after "consultation with the minority \eader."21 A bipar• 
tisan selection of Members was appointed pursuant to House Reso­
lution 503 on July 1, 2021, and July 26, 2021.22 
Pursuant to House rule XI and House Resolution 503, the Select 
Committee is authorized "to require, by subpoena or otherwise, the 
attendance and testimony of such witnesses and the production of 
books, records, correspondence, memoranda, papers, and docu­
ments as it considers necessary."23 That same House rule expressly 
allows House committees to compel information from the President 
and his aides.24 Further, section 5(c)(4) of House Resolution 503 
provides that the Chairman of the Select Committee may "author­
ize and issue subpoenas pursuant to clause 2(m) of rule XI in the 
investigation and study'' conducted pursuant to the enumerated 
purposes and functions of the Select Committee. The Select Com­
mittee's authorizing resolution further states that the Chairman 
"may order the taking of depositions, including pursuant to sub· 
poena, by a Member or counsel of the Select Committee, in the 
same manner as a standing committee pursuant to section 3(bXO 
of House Resolution 8, One Hundred Seventeenth Congress."25 The 
subpoena to Mr. Meadows was duly issued pursuant to section 
5(c)(4) of House Resolution 503 and clause 2(m) of rule XI of the 
Rules of the House of Representatives.26 
A. The Select Committee seeks information from Mr. Meadows cen­
tral to its investigative purposes. 
The Select Committee seeks information from Mr. Meadows cen­
tral to its investigative responsibilities delegated to it from the 
House of Representatives. This includes the obligation to inves­
tigate and report on the facts, circumstances, and causes of the at­
tack on January 6, 2021, and on the facts, circumstances, and 
causes "relating to the interference with the peaceful transfer of 
power."27 
The events of January 6, 2021, involved both a physical assault 
on the Capitol building and law enforcement personne l protecting 
it and an attack on the constitutional process central to the peace­
ful transfer of power following a presidentia l election. The counting 
UH. Res. 503. ! 17th Cong.§ 5(c)(6) (2021) 
USection 5(c)(4) of H. Res. 503 invokes clause 2(rn)(3)(A)(i) of rule XI, which states in perti­
nent part: "'The power(() authorize and issue subpoenas under subpa.ra.gra.p~ (l~B) rna.y be dele. 
gatedt-Othechairofthecornrnitteeundersuchrulesandundersuchlirn,tationsasthecorn­
rnitteernayprescribe.· 
2,H. Res.503. 117thCong.§3(1)(2021).  31 
of electoral college votes by Congress is a component of that trans­
fer of power that occurs every January 6 following a presidential 
election. This event is part of a complex process, mediated through 
the free and fair elections held in jurisdictions throughout the 
country, and through the statutory and constitutional processes set 
up to confirm and validate the results. In the case of the 2020 pres­
idential election, the January 6 electoral college vote count oc­
curred following a series of efforts in the preceding weeks by Mr. 
Trump and his supporters to challenge the legitimacy of, disrupt, 
delay, and overturn the election results. 
According to eyewitness accounts as well as the statements of 
participant s in the attack on January 6, 2021, a purpose of the as­
sault was to stop the process of validating what then-President 
Trump, his supporters, and his allies had falsely characterized as 
a "stolen" or "fraudulent" election. The claims regarding the 2020 
election results were advanced and amplified in the weeks leading 
up to the January 6 assault, even after courts across the country 
had resoundingly rejected Trump campaign lawsuits claiming elec­
tion fraud and misconduct, and after all States had certified the 
election results. As part of this effort, Mr. Trump and his associ­
ates spread false information about, and cast doubts on, the elec­
tions in Arizona, Pennsylvania, Michigan, and Georgia, among 
other states, and pressed Federal, State, and local officials to use 
their authorities to challenge the election results. 
To fulfill its investigative responsibilities, the Select Committee 
needs to understand the events and communications in which Mr. 
Meadows reportedly participated or that he observed. 
Mr. Meadows was one of a relatively small group of people who 
witnessed the events of January 6 in the White House and with 
then-President Trump. Mr. Meadows was with or in the vicinity of 
then-President Trump on January 6 as he learned about the attack 
on the U.S. Capitol and decided whether to issue a statement that 
could stop the rioters.28 In fact, as the violence at the Capitol un­
folded, Mr. Meadows received many messages encouraging him to 
have Mr. Trump issue a statement that could end the violence, and 
one former White House employee reportedly contacted Mr. Mead­
ows several times and told him, "[y]ou guys have to say something. 
Even if the president's not willing to put out a statement, you 
should go to the [cameras] and say, 'We condemn this. Please stand 
down.' If you don't, people are going to die.''29 
Moreover, Mr. Meadows reportedly spoke with Kashyap Patel, 
who was then the chief of staff to former Acting Secretary of De­
fense Christopher Miller, "nonstop" throughout the day of January 
6.30 And, among other things, Mr. Meadows apparently knows if 
and when Mr. Trump was engaged in discussions regarding the 
National Guard's response to the Capitol riot, a point that is con­
tested but about which Mr. Meadows provided documents to the  32 
Select Committee and spoke publicly on national television after 
President Trump left office.31 
Beyond those matters, the Select Committee seeks infonnation 
from Mr. Meadows about issues including the following: 
• Mr. Meadows exchanged text messages with, and provided 
~~~a~ne:0th~n o~;~~~~~~r ~idthhi~a~h:[3:,[~:ti:;~\:;e t~~t~~ 
crazy and I desperately need some direction. Please."32 
• Mr. Meadows sent an email to an individual about the 
events on January 6 and said that the National Guard would 
be present to "protect pro Trump people" and that many more 
would be available on standby.33 
• Mr. Meadows received text messages and emails regarding 
apparent efforts to encourage Republican legislators in certain 
States to send alternate slates of electors to Congress, a plan 
which one Member of Congress acknowledged was "highly con­
troversial" and to which Mr. Meadows responded, "I love it." 
Mr. Meadows responded to a similar message by saying "[w]e 
are" and another such message by saying "Yes. Have a team 
on it."34 
• Mr. Meadows forwarded claims of election fraud to the 
Acting leadership of DOJ for further investigation, some of 
which he may have received using a private email account and 
at least one of which he had received directly from people asso­
ciated with Mr. Trump's re-election campaign.35 
• He also reportedly introduced Mr. Trump to then-DOJ offi­
cial Jeffrey Clark.36 Mr. Clark went on to recommend to Mr. 
Trump that he be installed as Acting Attorney General and 
that DOJ should send a letter to State officials urging them to 
take certain actions that could affect the outcome of the No­
vember 2020 election by, among other things, appointing alter­
nate slates of electors to cast electoral votes for Mr. Trump 
rather than now-President Biden.37 
w~ic~~-h:1;:~t1ci~a~t ;t~~itoar\:~1t d:cei:!~a\haen~e~~ ll:a ~fi;~nt~ 
back against "mounting evidence" of purported voter fraud 
after courts had considered and overwhelmingly rejected 
Trump campaign claims of voter fraud and other election irreg­
ularities. He participated in one such meeting in the Oval Of­
fice with Mr. Trump and Members of Congress, which he pub­
licly tweeted about from his personal Twitter account shortly 
after.38 He participated in another such call just days before 
3! Documents on file with the Select Committee (Meadows production ); Transcript, "The 
t?9~~:: n~-~t1
i~:-~;1Lea~~u~~f~~ci~~i°;.~ko~~~~it1!ifi.~~tps~::~J;~~e~sHC::tr:.~se1t~ 
News, (t"eb. 12, 2021), available at httpsJ/www.foxnew s.com/transeript/new-yorker-who-lost­
mother-in-1aw-in- nursing-home-blasts-disgrace-cuomo; Testimony of Hon. Christopher C. Miller, 
U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and Reform, (May 12. 2021), available 
at 3~~1;~c;:;~~t -R~"~tio~~s~t~~~~~~;t~(~~;~z~.:·\1~~~~i::!tl lefl20Testimony. pdf. 
3-3 Documents on file with the Select Committee (Meadows production ). 
34 Documents on file with the Select Committee (Meadows production ), 
30 Documents on file with the Select Committc(! . 
UMichael Bender, Frankly, \Ve Did \Vin This Election: The foside Story of /low Trump Lost, 
(New York; Grand Central Publishing. 2021). p. 369. 
37 Documents on file with the Select Committee. 
38 Marissa Schultz, "Trump meets with members of Congress plotting Electoral College obje<:­
tions on Jan. 6," Fox News, (Dec. 2L 2021), available at https://www.foxnews.com/politic s/mem­
Continued  33 
the January 6 attack with Mr. Trump, Members of Congress, 
attorneys for the Trump re-election campaign, and "some 300" 
~;:;s:~~/:1!~t~~at~~i1:/t!~~~fs t~: 1i~~i~06~~t;r~~g cer-
• Mr. Meadows traveled to Georgia to observe an audit of 
the votes days after then-President Trump complained that the 
audit had been moving too slowly and claimed that the signa-
t;~-Tu~~~,:y:;:n; ;~a~t:gi~it ri~;~t/:!~::a~ PoFrs~~f~t=~et. 
later, secretary of state.41 In the call with Georgia's secretary 
of state, which Mr. Meadows and an attorney working with the 
campaign also joined, Mr. Trump pressed his unsupported 
claims of widespread election fraud, including claims related to 
deceased people voting, forged signatures, out-of-State voters, 
shredded ballots, triple-counted ballots, Dominion voting ma­
chines, and suitcase ballots, before telling the secretary of state 
~~:t p~~n't!ti:~~tt~i;~aif0
~~ M0
ei:do~~se~:k;d ~t~ ~~!0;ii~t ~} 
cooperation and compromise, is there something that we can at 
least have a discussion to look at some of these allegations to 
find a path forward that's less litigious?".J3 At that point, Mr. 
Trump had filed two lawsuits in his personal capacity and on 
behalf of the campaign in Georgia, but the United States had 
not filed-and never did file-any. Mr. Meadows used a per­
sonal account in his attempts to reach the secretary of state 
before.44 
• Mr. Meadows was chief of staff during the post-election pe­
riod when other White House staff, including the press sec­
retary, advanced claims of election fraud. In one press con• 
ference, the press secretary claimed that there were "very real 
~~~~~s:;J ~~~ddt~~:~;ii-~r~~rn; e:!~c~~; thaa~~~:rh;,~5
i~~~~ 
tified as being particularly prone to fraud."45 
able at https:l/www.washingt0nexaminer .com/washington-scereta/exclusive-trump-urges-suite­
legislators-to-reje.:t-ele.:tora\-vot.es-you-11re-the -re11l-power. 
•0 Linda So. "Trump's chief of staff could face scrutiny in Georgia criminal probe,~ Reut.ers, 
(March 19. 2021), available at https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trurnp-georgia -rneadows-in­
sight-idUSKBN2BBOXX 
4l/d. 
~2::k,!ii[:4~;;s(~~~t~ii~~~t~~ft7u~:~!;f!~?~~i;te~~~1•if~!;::~~;~ 
Trump and Raffensperger. Washil!g/oll Po,it, (Jan. 2, 2021). https:l/www.washingl.onpos t.com/pol­
itics/trurn -raffensper er-eall-tran script-goorgia -votel".2021/0l/03/2768e0re-4ddd -lleb-83e3 
" 45Transcript of November 20, 2020, White House Press Conference, available at https:1/ 
;;;:s:~~t~~~c~~;tripta/press-secretary-kayle igh-mcenany-whit.e-house-press-conference- 34 
11 
• Mr. Meadows participated in a meeting that reportedly oc­
curred on December 18, 2020, with Mr. Trump, the White 
House counsel, an attorney associated with the campaign, 
White House staff, and private citizens, on proposals relating 
to challenging the 2020 election results.46 During the meeting, 
the participant s reportedly discussed purported foreign inter­
ference in the election, seizing voting machines , invoking cer­
tain Federal laws like the National Emergencie s Act, and ap­
pointing one of the attendees as a special counsel with a Top 
Secret security clearanc e to investigate fraud in the election.47 
White House officials, including Mr. Meadows, may have re­
sisted some of the proposals,48 but, at one point, Mr. Trump re­
portedly said: ''You [White HouseJ guys are offering me noth­
ing. These guys are at least offering me a chance. They're say­
ing they have the evidence. Why not try this?"49 
• Mr. Meadows reportedly sent an email-subject line "Con­
stitutional Analysis of the Vice President's Authority for Janu­
ary 6, 2021, Vote Count"-to a member of then-Vice President 
Pence's senior staff containing a memo written by an attorney 
affiliated with Mr. Trump's re-election campaign. The memo 
argued that the Vice President could declare electoral votes in 
six States in dispute when they came up for a vote during the 
Joint Session of Congress on January 6, 2021, which would re­
quire those States' legislatures to send a response to Congress 
by 7 p.m. EST on January 15 or, if they did not, then congres­
sional delegations would vote for Mr. Trump's re-election.50 
• Mr. Meadows was in contact with at least some of the pri­
vate individual s who planned and organized a January 6 rally, 
one of whom reportedly may have expressed safety concerns to 
Mr. Meadows about January 6 events.51 Mr. Meadows used his 
personal cell phone to discuss the rally in the days leading up 
to January 6.52 
• Mr. Meadows described in his book, The Chiefs Chief, spe­
cific conversations that he had with Mr. Trump while he was 
the President about, among other things, fraud in the election 
and the January 6th attack on the United States Capitol. In 
one passage about the election, Mr. Meadows quotes Mr. 
Trump.53 Tn another passage about January 6, Mr. Meadows 
describes a conversation he had with Mr. Trump after Mr. 
•~Jonathan Swan and Zachary Basu. "Bonus episode: Inside the craiiest meeting of the 
Trump presidtmcy.W Axios. (Feb. 2, 2021). available at https:l/www.axio s.oom/trum p-oval-office­
mccting-sidney-powell-a8ele466-2 e42·42d0-9c n-26eb267fB723.html 
4?IJ. 
•BMaggie Habennan and Zolnn Kanno-Youngs. "Trump Weighed Naming Election Conspiracy 
Theorist as Special Counsel," New York Times. (Dec. 19. 2020). available at https:1/ 
www.nytimes.com/2020/12/19 /uslpoliticsltrump-sidney -powell-voter-fraud.htm l. 
•9Jonathan Swan and Zachary Basu, "Bonus episode: Inside the craiiest meeting of the 
Trump presidency,-Axios, (Feb. 2, 2021) available nt htlps:l/www.axios.oom/ trump-oval-office­
mccling•sidney-powell-a8ele466-2e42·42d0-9c 0-26eb267fB723.html 
MKarJ, Betroya/, pp. 259-60. 
61 Documents on file with the Select Committee; Joshua Kaplan and Joaquin Sapien, "New 
~tails Suggest Senior Trump Aides Knew Jan. 6 Rally Could Get Chaotict ProPublica. (June 
25, 2021), 11vail11b!e at https://www.propublica.org/11rticle/new-details -suggest-sen ior-trump•11ides­
kncw-j11n-6-rally-co uld-get-ch110tic. 
62 Documents on file with the Se\e.:t Committee . 
""Meadows, The Chiefs Chief, p. 261  35 
12 
Trump spoke to rally goers and, presumably, just after the at­
tack on the Capitol had started.54 
It is apparent that Mr. Meadows's testimony and document pro­
duction are of critical importance to the Select Committee's inves­
tigation. Congress, through the Select Committee, is entitled to dis­
cover facts concerning what led to the attack on the U.S. Capitol 
on January 6, as well as White House officials' actions and commu­
nications during and after the attack. Mr. Meadows is uniquely sit­
uated to provide key information, having straddled an official role 
in the White House and unofficial role related to Mr. Trump's re­
election campaign since at least election day in 2020 through Janu­
ary 6. 
B. Mr. Meadows has refused to comply with the Select Committee's 
subpoena. 
On September 23, 2021, the Select Committee sent a subpoena 
to Mr. Meadows ordering the production of both documents and 
testimony relevant to the Select Committee's investigation. ss The 
accompanying letter set forth a schedule specifying categories of re­
lated documents sought by the Select Committee on topics includ­
ing, but not limited to, documents and communications regarding 
the 2020 election results sent or transmitted between White House 
officials and officials of State or local governments; communications 
regarding challenging, decertifying, overturning, or contesting the 
results of the 2020 presidential election; communications with 
Members of Congress on January 6 relating to or referring to the 
attack on the Capitol; documents and communications related to 
security of the Capitol or other Federal facilities on January 5, 
2021, and January 6, 2021; and documents and communications re­
~~i~~f s!ny plan for the former President to march or walk to the 
The subpoena required Mr. Meadows to produce the requested 
documents to the Select Committee on October 7, 2021, and to pro­
vide testimony on October 15, 2021. As authorized by Mr. Mead­
ows, attorney Scott Gast accepted service of this subpoena on be­
half of Mr. Meadows on September 23, 2021. On October 7, 2021, 
George J. Terwilliger , III sent a letter to the Select Committee ad­
vising that he had been retained to serve as counsel to Mr. Mead­
ows for purposes of the Select Committee's inquiry.57 
On October 12, 2021, Mr. Terwilliger and staff for the Select 
Committee had a telephone call to discuss the Select Committee's 
subpoena to Mr. Meadows. During that call, staff for the Select 
Committee previewed certain topics of inquiry they intended to de­
velop during Mr. Meadows's deposition and for which claims of ex­
ecutive privilege should not apply.58 Chairman THOMPSON included 
that list of topics in a later letter to Mr. Terwilliger dated October 
25, 2021. 
On October 13, 2021, Mr. Terwilliger emailed staff for the Select 
Committee and referenced "the potential for conflicting directions 
from former-President Trump and President Biden as to preserva-
r., Meadows, The Chiefs Chief, p. 259 
MSee Appendix, Ex. 1 (Subpoena to Mark Meadows) 
""Id. 
67SeeAppendix, Ex. 2(VariousCorrespondence ). 
""Id.  36 
13 
tion of privileges concerning senior presidential advisors and com­
munication by the same in that role."59 Mr. Terwilliger stated that 
he was scheduled to discuss "privilege issues" with the White 
House [c]ounsel's office on October 14 but indicated that it was "not 
clear ... that, in whole or in part, relevant privileges would not 
attach to Mr. Meadows['] testimony" as to topics that staff for the 
Select Committee outlined during the October 12 telephone call.60 
Accordingly, he informed the Select Committee that he "could not 
advise" Mr. Meadows to "commit to testifying'' on the subpoena 
designated date of October 15.61 Mr. Terwilliger also emailed to 
staff for the Select Committee an October 6, 2021, letter from 
former-President Trump's counsel, Justin Clark, to Mr. Meadows's 
then-coun sel, Mr. Gast, expressing former-President Trump's ap• 
parent belief that "Mr. Meadows is immune from compelled con­
gressional testimony on matters related to his official responsibil­
ities."62 The letter also purports to "instruct[J" Mr. Meadows "(a) 
where appropriate, invoke any immunities and privilege he may 
have from compelled testimony in response to the [s]ubpoena; (b) 
not produce any documents concerning his official duties in re• 
sponse to the [sJubpoena; and (c) not provide any testimony con­
cerning his official duties in response to the [s]ubpoena ."63 
On October 25, 2021, Chairman THOMPSON responded to Mr. 
Terwilliger's October 7, 2021, letter and October 13, 2021, email. 
He stated that even assuming that, as a former President, Mr. 
Trump is permitted to formally invoke executive privilege, Mr. 
Trump had not communicated an invocation of privilege, either for­
mally or informally, to the Select Committee with respect to Mr. 
Meadows's production of documents or appearance to provide testi­
mony.64 The October 25 response from Chairman THOMPSON fur­
ther stated that-even assuming a privilege applied to Mr. 
Meadows's documents and testimony and former-President Trump 
had formally invoked a privilege (which was not the case)-Mr. 
Meadows does not enjoy anything like the type of blanket testi­
monial immunity former-President Trump and Mr. Terwilliger sug­
gested would insulate Mr. Meadows from an obligation to comply 
with the Select Committee's subpoena. 65 The letter also noted that, 
regardless, the information the Select Committee seeks from Mr. 
Meadows involves a range of subjects that cannot be considered 
part of Mr. Meadows's "official responsibilities," including but not 
limited to "communication s and meetings involving people who did 
not work for the United States government"; "Mr. Meadows'(] cam­
paign-related activities"; and "communication s and meetings about 
topics for which the Department of Justice and the White House 
have expressly declined to assert executive privilege."66 
The Chairman's October 25 letter extended the subpoena's docu­
ment production deadline to November 5, 2021, and extended 
Meadows's appearance for deposition testimony to November 12, 
&a/d. 
001d. 
s•Jd. 
b"I.Jd. 
53/d. 
M/d. 
Mf< 
66/d.  37 
14 
2021.67 It also made clear that the Select Committee would view 
!~~~t iir~!5lh~d S~l:~t c~~~~f~e85t;~~~~iditfi~k \~;c:h;v~~~~ 
tempt of Congress procedures pursuant to 2 U.S.C. §§ 192 and 194, 
as well as the possibility of civil enforcement proceedings.68 
On November 3, 2021, Mr. Terwilliger transmitted a letter to the 
Select Committee, responding to Chairman THOMPSON'S October 
25, 2021, letter with respect to the production of documents. In it, 
Mr. Terwilliger stated that he was "not aware at this time of any 
documents that are responsive to the Select Committee's subpoena 
and maintained in Mr. Meadows's custody or control," and that he 
"therefore ha[d) no documents to produce to the Select Com­
mittee."69 
That same day, Mr. Terwilliger transmitte d to the Select Com­
mittee a second letter. In it, Mr. Terwilliger suggested that Mr. 
Meadows maintains a "good faith" belief that he cannot comply 
with the subpoena and testify before Congress and, instead, pro­
posed unspecified accommodatio ns.70 Notably, Mr. Terwilliger ac­
knowledged that courts had universally rejected Mr. Meadows's po­
sition on absolute testimonial immunity, but claimed that the exec­
utive branch had never "retreated from that position" and that the 
Sui~eN~v~~b!r hi~ ~i~r ct:t~a~-~HOMPSON responded to Mr. 
Terwilliger's November 3 letters. Chairman THOMPSON noted that 
although Mr. Terwilliger stated that Mr. Meadows had no docu­
ments to produce to the Select Committee, Mr. Terwilliger had pre-
ti~s~~Jn:~~a~~i!~v~~:~h~~~ ~~~~::~t~0
fo~~:~~~t~ f~n~:~. Me;i; 
November 5 letter also reiterated Mr. Meadows's obligation to pro­
vide a privilege log detailing each document and each privilege that 
he believes applied for any responsive documen ts so the Select 
Committee could evaluate whether any additional actions are ap­
propriate, reminded Mr. Terwilliger that categorical claims of exec­
utive privilege are improper and that Mr. Meadows must assert 
any such claim made by former-President Trump narrowly and 
specifically.73 Chairman THOMPSON further noted that the Select 
Committee had received information suggesting that Mr. Meadows 
used his personal cell phone for communications relevant to the Se­
lect Committee 's inquiry, some of which potentially would fall 
~i°adneT~~~~~~~~i~!q~~~~~~s tt~i MC:~~=~:il1\~:; t~cirii~nr~tt~~~~: 
lect Committee the current location of Mr. Meadows's cell phone 
and whether Mr. Meadows provided his texts and other relevant 
cell phone records to the National Archives.75 
In an effort to reach an accommo dation with respect to Mr. 
Meadows's deposition, the November 5, 2021, letter provided fur­
ther information regarding the topics the Select Committee in­
tended to develop with Mr. Meadows during the deposition, some 
681d. 
001, 
70Jd. 
71/d. 
7'.!fd. 
73fd. 
7</d. 
'13/d. 
76/d.  38 
15 
of which the Chairman had previously identified in his October 25, 
2021, letter. These topics included but were not limited to 
"[m]essaging to or from the White House, Trump reelection cam­
paign, party officials, and others about purported fraud, irregular­
ities, or malfeasance in the November 2020 election"; "(e]fforts to 
pressure federal agencies, including the Department of Justice, to 
take actions to challenge the results of the presidential election, ad­
vance allegations of voter fraud, interfere with Congress's count of 
the Electoral College vote, or otherwise overturn President Biden's 
certified victory"; "[e]fforts to pressure former Vice President Pence, 
members of his staff, and Members of Congress to delay or prevent 
certification of the Electoral College vote"; "(c]ampaign related ac­
tivities" including Mr. Meadows's "travel to Georgia" and contacts 
with "officials and employees in the Georgia secretary of state's Of­
fice"; "(m]eetings or other communications involving people who did 
not work for the United States government" including "Michael 
Flynn, Patrick Byrne," and "organizers of the January 6 rally like 
Amy Kremer"; and "[a]dvance knowledge of, and any preparations 
for, the possibility of violence during election-related rallies and/or 
protests in Washington, D.C."76 The letter made clear that the Se­
lect Committee did not expect to seek information from Mr. Mead­
ows unrelated to the 2020 election and what led to and occurred 
on January 6, and indicated a willingness to discuss and negotiate 
any additional areas or subjects about which the Select Committee 
would seek information from Mr. Meadows as the Select Committee 
continued its investigation.77 Chairman THOMPSON invited input 
from Mr. Meadows on the delineated topics by November 8.78. As 
in previous correspondence, Chairman THOMPSON stated that the 
Select Committee would view failure to respond to the subpoena as 
willful non-compliance, which would force the Select Committee to 
consider invoking the contempt of Congress procedures pursuant to 
2 U.S.C. §§ 192 and 194, in addition to the possibility of civil en­
forcement proceedings.79 
On November 8, 2021, Mr. Terwilliger responded, stating that he 
was "reiterate[ing]" Mr. Meadows's position that he "cannot be 
compelled to provide congressional testimony" as a former White 
House chief of staff.80 As a purported "accommodation," Mr. 
Terwilliger proposed "that the Select Committee propound written 
interrogatories to Mr. Meadows on any topics about which the Se­
lect Committee may wish to inquire."81 Mr. Terwilliger also indi­
cated that Mr. Meadows had provided him with access to electronic 
images from his personal accounts and devices, the review of which 
was "ongoing."82 Regarding the list of topics outlined in the Novem­
ber 5 letter, Mr. Terwilliger asserted, without specifically and nar­
rowly addressing on a topic-by-topic basis, that the topics "plainly 
implicate executive privilege even under a narrow interpretat ion of 
7eJJ. 
77/d. 
78/d. 
~i. 
80/cf. 
Slfd. 
82/d.  39 
16 
it," and expressed the belief that Mr. Meadows could not testify 
about the topics without implicating executive privilege .83 
In a November 9, 2021, letter to Mr. Terwilliger, Chairman 
THOMPSON stated that Mr. Terwilliger's November 8 letter failed to 
respond with any specificity about the topics of inquiry by the Se­
lect Committee, leading the Select Committee to assume that Mr. 
Terwilliger believed that all of the topics potentially im[licated ex-
~~~tt~th~~v1~i~t:ncth~~;:ip!~ ,0!;~~chN t~~rk~J~c~tC~m~?f~t~~d 
requested in its November 5 letter, the Select Committee must in­
sist that Mr. Meadows appear for a deposition on November 12, as 
required by the subpoena, and that written interro~atories were 
not an acceptab le substitute for live, in-person testimony.85 The 
November 9 letter further stated that the Select Committee had 
identified evidence regarding Mr. Meadows's use of personal cel­
lular phone and email accounts, and, because or that, it would be 
a subject of inquiry during the November 12 deposition. 86 The let­
ter listed eight specific question s concerning the information that 
the Select Committee would seek to develop regarding this issue, 
noM~~~:tie~ ~~p~~!!:b:~y9~2oc2tvth~r F0etS::arii~\~f:t~ourt for 
~~fe~~tt~~tp~ih9bl~di~~io!~~~eif \vh~!~nri;it:c~ict~~~r~~oTS:eml~~ 
lect Committee by asserting the executive privilege.88 The Federal 
court held "that the public interest lies in permitting-not enjoin­
ing-the combined will of the legislative and executive branches to 
study the events that led to and occurred on January 6, and to con­
sider legislation to prevent such events from ever occurring 
again."89 The United States Court of Appeals for the District of Co­
lumbia Circuit affirmed the district court's ruling on December 9, 
2021. 
On November 10, 2021, Mr. Terwilliger acknowledged receipt of 
Chairman THOMPSON 'S November 9, 2021, letter, but did not ad­
dress the eight specific questions Chairman THOMPSON included in 
his letter, instead stating that "Mr. Meadows cannot agree to ap­
pear at 10 AM Friday" and again claiming that Mr. Meadows be­
lieved that "senior aides to the president cannot be compelled to 
provide congressional testimony."90 
On November 11, 2021, the White House Counsel's Office issued 
a letter to Mr. Terwilliger regarding the Select Committee's sub­
poena to Mr. Meadows. That letter stated: "in recognition of these 
unique and extraordinary circumstances, where Congress is inves­
tigating an effort to obstruct the lawful transfer of power under our 
Constitution, President Biden has already determined that an as­
sertion of executive privilege is not in the public interest, and is 
therefore not justified, with respect to particular subjects within 
the purview of the Select Committee."91 The letter further noted 
t!Jld. 
&!Id. 
""Id. 
""Id. 
s•1d. 
fM!Trump v. Thompson, Case No. l:21-cv-02769-TSC, Doc. 35 (D.D.C. Nov. 9, 2021) (cit.alions 
andquotationmarkgomitted ). 
89ld.,atp. 39. :','Zf Appendix, Ex. 2.  40 
17 
that, consistent with this determination, President Eiden "will not 
assert executive privilege with respect to [Mr. Meadows's] deposi­
tion testimony on these subjects, or any documents your client may 
possess that may bear on them," and "will not assert immunity to 
preclude [Mr. Meadows] from testifying before the Select Com­
mittee."92 
Later on November 11, 2021, Chairman THOMPSON sent another 
letter to Mr. Terwilliger. This letter summarized the correspond­
ence between Mr. Terwilliger and the Select Committee, and again 
noted that Mr. Meadows's reliance on opinions regarding absolute 
immunity from the Department of Justice Office of Legal Counsel 
("OLC") was misguided given that their reasoning has been re­
jected by all Federal courts to have considered the issue of absolute 
immunity.93 The Chairman's letter emphasized that, in any event, 
the White House Counsel's Office letter from earlier that day "evis­
cerates any plausible claim of testimonial immunity or executive 
privilege, and compels compliance with the Select Committee's sub­
poena."94 
On November 12, 2021, at 10 a.m., Mr. Meadows failed to appear 
at the designated location to provide testimony relevant to the Se­
lect Committee's inquiry in response to questions posed, as was re­
quired by the subpoena. He also failed to produce any responsive 
documents or a privilege log identifying the specific basis for with­
holding any documents believed to be protected by privilege. 
On November 19, 2021, a full week after Mr. Meadows failed to 
appear for a deposition and two weeks after the deadline to 
produce documents, Mr. Terwilliger sent a letter to Chairman 
THOMP SON purportedly seeking an accommodation and suggesting, 
again, that the Select Committee send interrogatories to Mr. Mead­
ows as a first step in a longer accommodation process that "could," 
depending on certain negotiations and parameters, result in a lim­
ited "deposition" "outside of compulsion by subpoena."95 Mr. 
Terwilliger made clear that Mr. Meadows would only answer inter­
rogatories on a narrow range of topics, and even on those topics 
would not provide any information regarding communications with 
the former President, former senior White House aides, and other 
individua ls with whom Mr. Meadows spoke on behalf of the Presi­
dent unless the former President explicitly authorized him to do 
so.96 
22~totri~ ~~o;~~!~~s~~sih0e0tta~m~~- r~j;~~ldi~~-0Te~~r;~;~ 
proposal to proceed by interrogator ies instead of lawfully-compelled 
testimony and production of documents. 97 In rejecting Mr. 
Terwilliger's proposal for a second time, the Chairman noted that 
"[w]hen Mr. Meadows first proposed interrogatories, he asked that 
the Select Committee 'propound' them, but did not say that he 
would actually provide any substantive information in response."98 
"2/d. 
""Id. 
94/d. 
""See Appendix, Ex. 5 (Lett.er from Counsel to Mark Meadows to Chainnan THO)!PSON, Nov. 
19,2021),atp.2. 
96/d.,atpp. l-2. 
91 See Appendix, Ex. 6 (Lett.er from Chairman THO~!PSON to Coum,el to Mark Meadows, Nov 
22,2021). 
""ld.,atp. I.  41 
18 
The Chairman further noted, "[n]ow, after his failure to comply 
with the Select Committee's subpoena, [Mr. Meadows ) has added 
conditions: (1) the interrogatories can only ask questions about two 
days in January 2021 and Mr. Meadows 's communicat ions with the 
Departm ent of Justice; and (2) Mr. Meadows will only respond to 
questions about his commun ications 'with or on behalf of the 
[former] President, or with other senior White House aides' pro­
vided that he first obtains the former President's approval."99 
Chairman THOMPSON then walked through the Select Committee's 
lengthy correspondence with Mr. Terwilliger, and explained that 
"[t]his history has led the Select Committee to suspect that you are 
simply engaged in an effort to delay, and that Mr. Meadows has 
no genuine intent to offer any testimony on any relevant topic."100 
Nevertheless, the Chairman extended Mr. Meadows an opportunit y 
to show that he was operating in good faith by instructing Mr. 
Meadows to provide documents responsive to the original subpoena 
by November 26, 2021, and to appear for a deposition that the 
Chairman would convene on November 29, 2021 (later moved to 
December 8, 2021).101 In doing so, Chairman THOMPSON reiterated 
that Mr. Meadows may object to specific questions that he believes 
raise privilege concerns so that he and the Select Committee could 
engage in further discussions about his privilege arguments.102 In 
closing, Chairman THOMPSON indicated that the Select Committee 
would "defer consideration of enforcement steps regarding Mr. 
Meadows's non-complianc e with the Select Committee 's subpoena 
pending the November 26 production of documents and November 
29 deposition."l03 
Mr. Terwilliger responded to Chairman THOMPSON'S letter by two 
separate letters dated November 26, 2021. In his first letter, Mr. 
Meadows, through counsel, specifically agreed to appear for a "dep• 
osition to answer questions on what you believe to be non-privi• 
leged matters" subject to certain proposed conditions .104 In his sep­
arate letter, Mr. Michael Francisco, another attorney representing 
Mr. Meadows, explained that Mr. Meadows was making an "initial" 
document production of 1,139 documents responsive to the Select 
Committee's subpoena that were found in Mr. Meadows's personal 
Gmail account and that counsel was reviewing information from 
Mr. Meadows's personal cell phone, which Mr. Meadows "did not 
retain ... after January 2021."105 Mr. Francisco also provided a 
privilege log with that document production showing that Mr. 
Meadows was withholdin g hundred s more documents found in his 
personal Gmail account due to claims of executive, marital, and 
other protective privileges. 
On November 28, 2021, Chairman THOMPSON responded to coun­
sel's letters and indicated that he was willing to accommodate Mr. 
Meadows's request for a deposition during the week of December 
6 provided that he complete his production of documents no later 
""Id. 
'""Id .. atp. 2. 
1011d.,atpp. 2-3. 
:::1:•atp.3. 
HM Sn Appendix. Ex. 7 (Letter from Counsel to Mark Meadows to Chairman THm1PSON. Nov. 
26.2021),a lp.2. 106See Appendix, Ex. 8 (Letter from Counsel to Mark Meadows to Chairman TH0~1PSON, Nov. 
26,2021),atp.2.  42 
19 
than Friday, December 3, 2021.106 Chairman THOMPSON also ex­
plained that the Select Committee would ask questions of Mr. 
Meadows relevant to the investigation and consistent with Chair­
man THOMPSON'S previous letters about executive privilege. Chair­
man THOMPSON again explained his hope that Mr. Meadows would 
answer the questions posed, but also said that Mr. Meadows should 
assert any privileges that he believed applied on a question -by­
question basis on the record to inform continued discussions.107 As 
an accommodation, Chairman THOMPSON also agreed to provide in 
advance of the depositions the document s that the Select Com­
mittee intended to use in its questioning.108 Mr. Terwillig er agreed 
to the deposition format as explained in the November 28 letter 
during a call with Select Committee staff. 
As requested by Chairman THOMPSON, on December 3, 2021, Mr. 
Francisco produced approximately 2,300 text messages obtained 
from data backed up from Mr. Meadows's personal cell phone.109 
In doing so, Mr. Francisco also produced a privilege log with the 
document production showing that Mr. Meadows was withholding 
over 1,000 more text messages from his personal cell phone due to 
claims of executive, marital, and other protective privileges. 
Then, on December 7, 2021, Mr. Terwilliger send a letter explain­
ing that Mr. Meadows would not attend a deposition on December 
8, as he had previously agreed to do.110 During a call with Select 
Committee staff that same day, Mr. Terwilliger indicated that Mr. 
Meadows would not appear at all, even to discuss the documents 
that he had already provided to the Select Committee and that 
were not covered by any claim of protective privilege. 
To date, and despite the opportunity that the Select Committee 
gave to Mr. Meadows to cure his previous non-compliance with the 
Select Committee's subpoena, Mr. Meadows has never appeared for 
a compelled or voluntary deposition to answer any of the Select 
Committee's questions, even questions about the documents that 
Mr. Meadows has produced to the Select Committee . 
C. Mr. Meadows's purported basis for non-compliance is wholly 
without merit. 
As explained above, as part of its legislative function, Congress 
has the power to compel witnesses to testify and produce docu­
ments.111 An individual-whether a member of the public or an ex­
ecutive branch official-has a legal (and patriotic ) obligation to 
comply with a duly issued and valid congressional subpoena, unless 
a valid and overriding privilege or other legal justification permits 
106Se,, Appendix. Ex. 9 (Letter from Chainnan THmlPSON to Counsel to Mark Meadows. Nov. 
28.2021),a tp.l. 
:::~:•atp.2. 
""'See Appendix, Ex. 10 (Letter from Counsel to Mark Meadows to Chainnan THO~!PSON, Dec. 
3.2021). 
llOSe,, Appendix. Ex. 11 (Letter from Counsel to Mark Meadows to Chainnan THO~!PSON, Dec 
7.2021) 
1111\fcGrafo. 273 U.S. at 174 ("We are of opinion that the power of inquiry-with process to 
enforce it-is an essential and appropriate auxiliary to the legislative function.~); Barenbla/1 v 
United States, 360 U.S. 109, 111 (1959) ("The scope of the power of inquiry, in ahort, ia us pene­
trating and far-reachin g as the poU!ntial power to nnact and appropriate undnr tJ,n Constitu­
tion.").  43 
20 
non-compliance.112 In United States v. Bryan, the Supreme Court 
stated: 
A sub~na has never been treated as .an invitation to a game of hare and 
hounds, m which the witness must testify only if cornered at the end of the 
~~i!i~n~f :;a~c;:;s~~e ~a:e t~~~i~~,i~:~nfn~tof~:~~f ~dtik~;~t~:: 
:hi~~ ~e; n~~~?~ ~~h~~v~h~t~i~Xf~~~; otnh~mCo~~~e~ \~il:uunbJ\/~~'. 
form when properly summonc d.113 
It is important to note that the Select Committee sought testi­
mony from Mr. Meadows on information for which there can be no 
conceivab le privilege claim. Examples of that information are pro­
vided in this report, and the non-privileged nature of some key in­
formation has been recognized by Mr. Meadows's own productio n 
documents. The Select Committee has been entitled to Mr. 
Meadows's testimony on that information, regardless of his claims 
of privilege over other categories of information . 
In United States v. Nixon, 418 U.S. 683, 703-16 (1974), the Su• 
preme Court recognize d an implied constitutio nal privilege pro­
tecting presidentia l commun ications. The Court held though that 
the privilege is qualified, not absolute, and that it is limited to 
communications made "in performance of [a President's] respon­
sibilities of his office and made in the process of shaping policies 
and making decisions."114 Executive privilege is a recognized privi­
lege that, under certain circumstances, may be invoked to bar con­
gressional inquiry into communications covered by the privilege. 
Mr. Meadows has refused to testify in response to the subpoena 
ostensibly based on broad and undifferentiated assertions of var­
ious privileges, including claims of executive privilege purportedly 
asserted by former-President Trump. As the Select Committee has 
repeated ly pointed out to Mr. Meadows, his claims of testimonial 
immunity and executive privilege do not justify Mr. Meadows's con­
duct with respect to the Select Committee's subpoena. His legal po­
sition is particularly untenable in light of the incumbent Presi­
dent's decision to not assert testimonial immunity or executive 
privilege with respect to subjects on which the Select Committee 
seeks informat ion from Mr. Meadows. And it is untenable in light 
of Mr. Meadows's public descriptions of events in the book that he 
is trying to sell and during his numerous television appearances.115 
Even if privileges were applicable to some aspects of Mr. 
Meadows's testimony, he was required to appear before the Select 
Committee for his deposition, answer any questions concerning 
non-privileged information, and assert any such privilege on a 
question -by-question basis. After promising to appear, Mr. Mead­
ows has now reversed course and resumed his contemptuo us be­
havior. Mr. Meadows's conduct in response to the Select Commit-
112Watkins,35 4 U.S. at !87-88("ltisunquestionablythedutyofallcitizenstocooperatewith 
the Congress in it.s efforts to obtain the legislative action.~); see also 
Committee on . 2008) ("The Supreme Court 
subpoenaisalegalrequire-
,,. Nixon u. Administrator of Ge11eral Services (GSA). 433 U.S. 425. 449 (1977) (internal quotes 
and citations omitted). 
116Stt, e.g., Meadows. The Chiefs Chief; ~Hannity: Fox News, (Dec. 7. 2021). available at 
hltps://video.foxnews.comlv /6285715473001#sp:show-clips: '"I'he Ingraham Angle: Fox News, 
(Dec. 9, 2021), available at https://www.foxnews.comlmedia/mark-meadows-potential-contempt­
charges-january-6-committee.  44 
21 
tee's subpoena constitutes a violation of the contempt of Congress 
statutory provisions. 
1. The incumbent President has declined to assert claims of 
executive privilege and testimonial immunity. 
le::e::d:e~!i!i::i~Ihf!~~~!~;~e~a~df~: :~b~:~s0~b~~~u~hfclrlh~ 
Select Committee seeks documents and testimony from Mr. Mead­
ows. That fact matters because, even if a former President at­
tempts to prevent disclosure of certain information through asser­
tions of executive privilege, the former President's privilege is sub­
ordinate to executive privilege determinations made by the incum­
bent President. "[l]t is the new President [not his predecessor] who 
has the information and attendant duty of executing the laws in 
the light of current facts and circumstances," and "the primary, if 
not the exclusive" duty of deciding when the need of maintaining 
confidentiality in communicat ions "outweighs whatever public in­
terest or need may reside in disclosure." Dellums v. Powell, 561 
F.2d 242, 247 (D.C. Ci'-1977). 
Indeed, in briefings in Trump v. Thompson, litigation involving 
a lawsuit against the Select Committee and the National Archives 
and Records Administratio n, DOJ has explained, even more specifi­
cally, why President Biden's decision controls whether information 
relevant to the Select Committee's investigation should be dis­
closed. DOJ said, among other things, that "[a} former President 
has no responsibility for the current execution of the law" and 
:~a~~~d~t d~ci~fo°oasl b~r~~;\sJ:i~e;~n~1
t;~~~Je;t ~C::g~:di:;:t~~j~:u:~ 
of Executive Branch information would be an extraordinary intru­
sion" into executive branch authority.116 
In other words, "[a]llowing a former President to block disclosure 
of Executive Branch information that the incumbent President has 
determined is in the national interest to share with Congress 
would be even more clearly contrary to well-established principles 
governing the exercise of sovereign authority."117 This is consistent 
with the District Court's decision in the same litigation, in which 
it rejected Mr. Trump's position and explained that Mr. Trump "is 
no longer situated to protect executive branch interests with the in­
formation and attendant duty of executing the laws in the light of 
current facts and circumstances" and because "he no longer re­
mains subject to political checks against potential abuse of that 
power."11s 
In his Novembe r 3 letter, Mr. Terwilliger stated that "it would 
be untenable for Mr. Meadows to decide unilaterally that he will 
waive privileges that not only protected his own work as a senior 
White House official but also protect current and future White 
House officials, who rely on executive privilege in giving their best, 
most candid advice to the President." 119 Of course, Mr. Meadows 
appears to have already done that by recounting in his book and 
on national television specific conversations and deliberations he 
116Brief for Executive Branch Defe11da11t.s. Trump u. Tlwmps-0r,, Case No. 21-5254, Doc. No 
1923461. atp.28(0.C. Cir. Nov. 22. 202l)(emphasisinorigina ll. 
117/d .. atp.19 
118Trump u. Thompson, Case No. l:21-cv-02769·TSC , Doc. No. 35, at p. 19 (D.D.C. Nov. 9, 
20~,Vs~1~~~:i~~ :ro~tio11 marks omitted).  45 
22 
had with Mr. Trump about events related to the January 6th at­
tack on the United States Capitol. But, even if he had not done all 
of that, he still need not worry about making such decisions "uni­
laterally" because the incumbent President has already declined to 
assert executive privilege or testimon ial immunity regarding sub­
jects about which the Select Committee seeks information. Mr. 
Meadows has known since he received the White House's letter on 
November 11, 2021, that President Eiden determined that "an as­
sertion of privilege is not justified with respect to testimony and 
documents" and that President Eiden "will not assert executive 
privilege with respect to [Mr. Meadows'] deposition testimony on 
these subjects, or any documents [Mr. Meadows] may possess that 
bear on them relevant to the Select Committee's investigation."120 
President Biden came to this conclusion "in recognition of these 
unique and extraordinary circumsta nces, where Congress is inves­
tigating an effort to obstruct the lawful transfer of power under our 
Constitut ion."121 Despite all of this, Mr. Meadows failed to appear 
for his deposition on November 12. When given the opportunity to 
cure his earlier contempt and appear for a deposition well after the 
subpoena's deadlines, he, once again, failed to do so. 
2. Mr. Trump has not formally invoked executive privilege. 
Former President Trump has had no communication with the Se­
lect Committee . In an October 11 email to the Select Committee, 
Mr. Meadows's attorney attached an October 6, 2021, letter from 
Mr. Trump's attorney, Justin Clark, in which Mr. Clark claimed 
that the Select Committee subpoena seeks information that is "un­
questionably protected from disclosure by the executive and other 
privileges, including among others the presidential communica­
tions, deliberative process, and attorney-client privileges." Mr. 
Clark stated that former-President Trump "is prepared to defend 
these fundamental privileges in court." Mr. Clark also relayed that, 
"to the fullest extent permitted by law, President Trump instructs 
Mr. Meadows to: (a) where appropriate, invoke any immunities and 
privileges he may have from compelled testimony in response to 
the Subpoena; (b) not produce any documents concerning his offi-
t~ii!~~;s c~:;::rii~~sehit; i~ci~lbJi~~=; i~n~e~~ois0
: r:0;~~e s:i 
poena."122 But without a formal assertion by Mr. Trump to the Se­
lect Committee, Mr. Meadows cannot establish the foundational 
element of a claim of executive privilege: an invocation of the privi­
lege by the executive. 
In United States v. Reynolds, 345 U.S. 1, 7-8 (1953), the Su-
preme Court held that executive privilege: 
~r;f~encf3n~ !~t~b~mt;ri~aa~dp;;;_t Irii/~~~~d i!yliit~l f~~o;;j~h'the':: 
must be a formal claim of privilege, lodged by the head of tie Jepartment which 
has control over the matter, after actual personal consideration by that officer. 
Here, the Select Committee has not been provided by Mr. Trump 
with any formal invocation of executive privilege. There is no legal 
authority-and neither Mr. Meadows nor former-President Trump 
1205..e Appendix , Ex. 3, at p. 2. White House Deputy Counsel has also made dear that the 
White House·s position has remained unchanged 11.'! of December 8, 2021. 
1211d.,atp. l. 
122seeAppendix, Ex. 2.  46 
23 
nor his counsel have cited any-holding that a vague statement by 
someone who is not a government official that a former President 
has an intention to assert a privilege absolves a subpoena recipient 
of his duty to comply. Such indirect, non-specific assertion of privi­
lege, without any description of the documents or testimony over 
which privilege is claimed, is insufficient to activate a claim of ex­
ecutive privilege. 
3. Mr. Meadows is not entitled to absolute immunity. 
Mr. Meadows has refused to appear for a deposition based on his 
purported reliance on alleged absolute testimonial immunity. How­
ever, even if Mr. Trump had invoked executive privilege, and even 
if executive privilege reached certain testimony sought by the Se­
lect Committee, Mr. Meadows would not be immune from com­
pelled testimony before the Select Committee , especially given the 
fact that he is no longer a high-level White House official. 
All courts that have reviewed this issue have been clear: even 
senior White House aides who advise the President on official gov­
ernment business are not immune from compelled congressional 
process.123 Instead, Mr. Meadows acknowledge s that this theory of 
~~un:~~i[J ~!1~!!~t ~~;i~~1
ha0
v~ ii!~f;r~l;~aj~~:t~JrN~v~r\~elt~s~~ 
Mr. Meadows refused to appear at his deposition. 
Moreove r, by their own terms, the OLC opinions on which Mr. 
Meadows relies are limited, applying only to testimony "about [a 
senior official's] official duties," not testimony about unofficial du­
ties.125 Many of the topics that Chairman THOMPSO N identified in 
~~d c~~:1d~~1iliecre r!lt u~d~e;~~e: r!°ac~r~lth:1 ,~b!~iu~~i~ ~~~rt~~ 
theory nor any privilege whatsoever. For instance: 
• Mr. Meadows was not conducting official and privileged 
business when he participated in a January 2021 call with 
campaign lawyers and State officials in which the participants 
urged State legislators to overturn the results of the November 
2020 election and guarantee a second term for Mr. Trump; 
• Mr. Meadows was not conducting official and privileged 
business when he participated in another call with campaign 
lawyers and the Georgia secretary of state in which Mr. Trump 
urged the Georgia secretary of state to "find" enough votes to 
ensure his campaign's victory in Georgia; and 
• Mr. Meadows was not engaged in official and privileged 
business when he used his personal accounts and/or devices to 
contact the Georgia secretary of state or speak with private or-
McGah11, 415 F. Supp.3d 148, 214 (D.0.C. 2019) (and 
plai,:, as possible, it i~ clc(lr to this Court, for the 
may not reuse 
to testify based on direction from the President that testimony will implicate executive privi­
lege) 
124/d.; see also Appendix. Ex. 2 (~I recognize. as your leti.:,r points out. that to date, the lower 
courtahavenotshared[OL.C's)vicw."). 
126Memorandum Opinion for the Counsel to the President, Office of Legal Counsel, Testi-
20,"~0iJr:::iJfo ti~:o~i::1.,:so¾~ti/r::'the ~:~':t~11
:;. 1~he 1;..!!fd;'!t.4&r?.~~-~i L 11
~11ci~~;. 
3~1'6T.'.c~11ifi °ft 11~lt.r:ir ,~:ioo4/(-~11ee ~~J:!d:\~~;.mM~:~~~4s si:::~~~!ior~~ ~~m~fld 
congression altestimonyaboutmatters ... thatarosed uringhertenureasCou nseltothe~esi­
denta11dt/za1relaletohero/f,cialdutiesinlha1capacity"(e mphasisadded)).  47 
24 
ganizers of a rally on the Ellipse that occurred just before the 
attack on the U.S. Capitol. 
The Select Committee specifically identified to Mr. Meadows 
these and other topics as subjects for his deposition testimony, and 
he had the legal obligation to appear before the Select Committee 
and address them on the record. 
Mr. Meadows's production of documents to the Select Committee 
highlights that he has information relevant to the Select Commit­
tee's inquiry that he himself acknowledges is not subject to any 
privilege. His refusal to provide testimony on such subjects further 
evidences willful non-compliance with the Select Committee's depo­
sition subpoena. Mr. Meadows produced to the Select Committee 
certain communications with campaign staff, Members of Congress, 
and acquaintances that do not involve official business, while with­
holding others that presumably do involve official business because 
of "executive privilege." In doing so, Mr. Meadows has clearly ac­
knowledged that he has relevant informat ion that is not related to 
his official conduct. And because the relevant information that he 
has is not related to his official conduct, Mr. Meadows cannot avoid 
a deposition in which he would be asked questions about those doc­
uments by invoking an OLC opinion that is limited to testimony 
about "official duties." 
4. Even if Mr. Trump had properly invoked executive privi­
lege and Mr. Meadows had properly asserted it, the privi­
lege would not bar the Select Committee from obtaining 
evidence from Mr. Meadows. 
The law is clear that executive privilege does not extend to dis­
cussions relating to non-governmental business or among private 
citizens.126 In In re Sealed Case (Espy), 121 F.3d 729, 752 (D.C. 
Cir. 1997), the court explained that the presidential communica­
tions privilege covers "communicatio ns authored or solicited and re­
ceived by those members of an immediate White House adviser's 
staff who have broad and significant responsibi lity for investigat ing 
and formulating the advice to be given the President on the par­
ticular matter to which the communications relate." The court 
stressed that the privilege only applies to communications intended 
to advise the President "on official government matters."127 
As noted above, the Select Committee seeks information from 
Mr. Meadows on a wide range of subjects that executive privilege 
cannot conceivably reach. For example, the Select Committee seeks 
information from Mr. Meadows about his interactions with private 
citizens, Members of Congress, or others outside the White House 
related to the 2020 election or efforts to overturn its results. Mr. 
Meadows has repeatedly refused to answer any questions about 
these matters. He has even refused to answer questions about the 
documents that he himself produced to the Select Committee with­
out any assertions of privilege. 
Even with respect to Select Committee inquiries that involve Mr. 
Meadows's direct communications with Mr. Trump, executive privi­
lege does not bar Select Committee access to that information. Only 
commun ications that relate to official government business can be 
126See Nixo11 v. CSA, 433 U.S. at 449. 
12>/d.  48 
25 
covered by the presidential communications privilege.128 Here, Mr. 
Meadows's conduct regarding several subjects of concern to the Se­
lect Committee is not related to official government business, such 
as: Meadows's participation in calls and meetings that clearly con­
cerned Mr. Trump's campaign rather that his official duties; or, Mr. 
Meadows's participation in meetings with Mr. Trump and private 
J~t~~tt18t~/~Je~~i~~iz1h!t v~;~J! ~~~~diy~jJa;J~gTu;!1~~•!teJird~~ 
"offer[) me a chance"; or, Mr. Meadows's contacts with organizers 
of the January 6th rally on the Ellipse. 
Moreover, even with respect to any subjects of concern that argu­
ably involve official government business, the Select Committee's 
need for this information to investigate the facts and circumstances 
surrounding the horrific January 6 assault on the U.S. Capit.ol and 
the Nation's democratic institutions far outweighs any possible ex­
ecutive branch interest at this point in maintaining confidentia lity. 
As noted by the executive, "the constitutional protections of execu­
tive privilege should not be used to shield information reflecting an 
effort to subvert the Constitution itself, and indeed [the President] 
believes that such an assertion in this circumstance would be at 
od~n;n;, :~e~rie:c;r~rii~~a~i~~1:r~eotpelvi ~;~:1:-'~~; Select Com-
mittee, Mr. Meadows has suggested that he has no choice but to 
avoid testifying because, as White House chief of staff, he had "as­
sumed responsib ility to protect Executive Privilege during and 
after his tenure," and that he had ''assumed that responsibility not 
for his own benefit but for the benefit of all those who will serve 
after him, including future presidents."130 He included in a sepa­
rate letter a passage about the importanc e of executive branch con­
fidentiality to "ensure that the President can obtain ... sound and 
candid advice."131 Those words are belied by Mr. Meadows's con­
duct. 
To be sure, the Supreme Court has made clear that executive 
privilege is rooted in the need for confidentiality to ensure that 
presidential decision-making is informed by honest advice and full 
knowledge: "[h]uman experience teaches that those who expect 
public dissemination of their remarks may well temper candor with 
a concern for appearances and for their own interests to the det­
riment of the decision-making process.''132 In Nixon u. GSA, the Su­
preme Court again considered issues related to executive privilege 
and balanced the important interests served by the Presidential 
Records Act against the intrusion into presidential confidentiality 
caused by compliance with the Act.133 Thus, a valid claim of execu­
tive privilege presumes that the information sought to discovered 
128S« Espy, 121 f-'.3d at 752 ("the privilege only applies to communications ... in the course 
~ £1~~:'i",~i'¥'.1d fr~~-0~ I~ (tt.·i/hiJ8itt:;~t;n\v°h~~i~ot0::iec~i::~:!r:~!i;c:\if l~~ 
~f:11:dVro~ di~f~~l.:est;a~r~-u~.'"r!')'.~liei~~~~ il:i~!')~le as it may have betln. would not be 
120s«Appe ndix, Ex. 2 
130SeeAppen dix, Ex.11,atp. 2. 
1a•SeeAppen dix, Ex.2. 
1a2u.s. v. Nixon,418U.S.683. 705--060974). 
di;:o~~~"ofSu~r~:!~3s5~naJ j,5; ~~~~af~~~ut~e of[~r:~~~s~o~1lnt~h~h!i!fi~e~ti~h;ye~} 
the Presidency. ~e believe that the daims of Presidenti'.11 privilege ~lea~ly must yield to the im­
portant congressional purposes of preserving the matenals and ma,nta,ning access to them for 
lawfulgovemmcnt.a landhistoricalpurposes.ff).  49 
26 
is confidential and that the need to maintain that confidentiality 
outweighs the interests promoted by disclosure. 
Here, however, executive privilege and the need to maintain con­
fidentiality is severely undermined, if not entirely vitiated, by Mr. 
Meadows's own extensive public disclosure of his communications 
with the former President, including on issues directly implicated 
by the Select Committee's subpoena. Mr. Meadows has appeared on 
national television discussing the January 6th attack on the U.S. 
Capitol and related conversations with former-President Trump.134 
And he has written about what former-President Trump told him 
on January 6th in his newly released book.135 Mr. Meadows's con­
duct relating to the very subjects of interest to the Select Com­
mittee foreclose a claim of executive privilege with respect to those 
disclosures.1313 Moreover, Mr. Meadows's statements to the Select 
Committee about his professed need to protect presidential con­
fidentiality rings hollow in the face of his cavalier and repeated dis­
closure of presidentia l communications in circumstances where 
doing so appears to suit his personal or political interests. Mr. 
Meadows has shown his willingness to talk about issues relat.ed to 
the Select Committee's investigation across a variety of media plat­
forms-anywhere, it seems, except to the Select Committee. 
For the reasons stated above, Mr. Meadows's own conduct and 
the determination by the current executive overrides any claim by 
Mr. Trump (even assuming Mr. Trump had invoked executive 
privilege with respect to Mr. Meadows). Furthermore, Mr. Mead­
ows has refused Chairman THOMPSON's numerou s invitations to as­
sert executive privilege on a question-by-question basis, making it 
impossible for the Select Committee to consider any good-faith ex­
ecutive privilege assertions. And, as discussed above, such concerns 
are wholly inapplicable to the broad range of subjects about which 
the Select Committee seeks Mr. Meadows's testimony that Mr. 
Meadows has acknowledged involve non-privileged matters. 
D. Precedent supports the Select Committee's position to proceed 
with holding Mr. Meadows in contempt. 
An individual who fails or refuses to comply with a House sub­
poena may be cited for cont.empt of Congress.137 Pursuant to 2 
U.S.C. § 192, the willful refusal to comply with a congressional sub­
poena is punishable by a fine of up to $100,000 and imprisonment 
for up to 1 year.138 In Quinn v. United States, the Supreme Court 
said that "Section 192, like the ordinary federal criminal statute, 
requires a criminal intent-in this instance, a deliberate, inten-
134See, e.g., 'l'Tanscript. '"The Ingraham Angle,-Fox News, (Feb. 11, 2021), available at https:// 
www.foxnews.rom/transcript/biden -warns-china-could-eat--011r-lunch-aft.er-phone -eall-with-xi; 
'l'Tanscript, ~uannity."" Fox News. (Feb. 12, 2021), available at https://www.fo xnews.com/tra n-
6Cripl/ncw-yorker-who •lost•mother•in•law-in -nursing-ho '!'e-blast-s-disgrac e-<uo!"o; Transcript, 
"Hannity,- Fox News, (Dec. 7, 2021). available at https://v,deo.foxnews.oom/v/ 
6285715473001#sp:show-<lips; Transcript, "The Ingraham Angle,- Fox News, (Dee. 9, 2021), 
available at https://www.foxn ews.oom/medialmark-meadow s-pot.enlia!•oontcmpt-,,harge s-january-
6•COmmittee. 
136Meadows, The Chiefs Chief, at p. 259. 
and concluding that"theWhit.e 
tothespecificdocument sthatit  50 
27 
tional refusal to answer."139 And proving criminal intent in this 
context is no more than showing a "deliberate " "refusal to answer 
pertinent questions"; it does not require a showing of ''moral turpi-
~u~:~:\::t~a~~mwii~:~_mTfut>;:ti~0n si:~:e~0~!~:r~!t~tt~~ aJl~~~:~ 
If a resolution to that end is adopted by the House, the matter is 
referred to a U.S. Attorney , who has a duty to refer the matter to 
a t~~u~:Jo~~ 8
h0a!ni~~~%:0s,;4
~ecognized the importance of con­
gressional access to information from executive branch officials to 
advance congressional investigations. As a Representative in Con­
gress, he served as ranking member of the House Committee on 
Oversight and Reform. In that position, he expected that even sen­
ior executive branch officials such as the Deputy Attorney General 
comply with Congress's subpoenas.142 Indeed, such an expectation 
is consistent with precedent spanning Republican and Democratic 
administrations under which top White House aides have provided 
testimony to Congress.143 Further, his recent assertion to the Se­
lect Committe e that he "cannot be compelled to provide congres­
sional testimony" as a former White House chief of staff runs di­
rectly counter to precedent under which top White House aides 
have provided testimony to Congress under subpoena. For example, 
former White House Chief of Staff John Podesta and former White 
House Counsel Beth Nolan testified in 2001 under subpoena re­
garding President Clinton's pardons before the House Committee 
on Government Reform.1 44 
Mr. Meadows did not need to be informed of his responsibility to 
comply with the Select Committee 's subpoena, but Chairman 
THOMPSON informed him anyway. In his November 11, 2021, letter 
to Mr. Meadows's counsel, Chairman THOMPSON advised Mr. Mead­
ows that his claims of executive privilege were not well-founded 
and did not absolve him of his obligation to produce document s and 
s~re~~r J~~~ft~:i~~pi::t~dMt ri~~fo~!r:a~p;:adre r~:8
hi!h:c~!~~ 
139Quinn 11. United States. 349 U.S. 155. 165 (1955) 
140Sinclair v. United States, 279 U.S. 263, 299 (1929); see also In re Chapman . 166 U.S. 661, 
i~;~:~i~: ~tV3ti~~1ir1~;~i: ~~ir~.;~if;:it3\f(:~::~t~;!f~~~ir~~;c;:r ~f~ 
evil motirn is not II nocessory partoflhe intent thus required.~) 
141 See 2 U.S.C. ~ 192. 
142 Mary Papenfuss, "Watch Mark Meadows Slam Official Who 'Stonewalled' Subpoenas from  51 
28 
uled deposition on November 12th and produce the requested docu­
ments at that time. The Chairman warned Mr. Meadows that his 
continued non-compliance would put him in jeopardy of a vote to 
refer him to the House to consider a criminal contempt referral. 
Mr. Meadows did not produce documents and did not show up for 
his deposition. And, when given the opportunity to cure his earlier 
contempt, Mr. Meadows produced documents but still chose to 
withhold testimony. Mr. Meadows's failure to appear for deposition 
testimony in the face of this clear advisement and warning by the 
Chairman, and after being given a second chance to cooperate with 
the Select Committee, constitutes a willful failure to comply with 
the subpoena . 
SELECT COMMJTIEE CONSIDERATION 
The Select Committee met on Monday, December 13, 2021. 
[ .. ] 
SELECT COMMITTEE VOTES 
Clause 3{b) of rule XIII requires the Select Committee to list the 
recorded votes during consideration of this Report: 
[. .. ] 
SELECT COMMITTEE OVERSIGHT FINDINGS 
In compliance with clause 3(c)(l) of rule XIII, the Select Com­
mittee advises that the oversight findings and recommendations of 
the Select Committee are incorporated in the descriptive portions 
of this Report. 
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE ESTIMATE 
The Select Committee finds the requirements of clause 3(c)(2) of 
rule XIII and section 308(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974, and the requirements of clause 3{c)(3) of rule XIII and section 
402 of the Congressio nal Budget Act of 1974, to be inapplicab le to 
this Report. Accordingly, the Select Committee did not request or 
receive a cost estimate from the Congressiona l Budget Office and 
makes no findings as to the budgetary impacts of this Report or 
costs incurred to carry out the Report. 
STATEMENT OF GENERAL PERFOR~1ANCE GOALS AND OBJECTIVES 
Pursuant to clause 3(c)(4) of rule XIII, the objective of this Re­
port is to enforce the Select Committee's authority to investigate 
the facts, circumstances, and causes of the January 6th attack and 
issues relating to the peaceful transfer of power, in order to iden­
tify and evaluate problems and to recommend corrective laws, poli­
cies, procedures, rules, or regulations; and to enforce the Select 
Committee's subpoena authority found in section 5(c)(4) of House 
Resolution 503.  52 
29 
APPENDIX 
The official transcript that memorialized Mr. Meadows's failure 
to appear at his November 12, 2021, deposition as ordered by sub­
poena, along with exhibits included in that record, is as follows: 
SELECT COMl\UTTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON 
THE U.S. CAPITOL , U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, WASH· 
INGTON,DC 
DEPOSITION OF: MARK MEADOWS (NO-SHOW) 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2021 
WASHINGTON, DC 
The deposition in the above matter was held in • • • • commencing at 10:00 
APPEARANCES: 
FOR THE SELECT COJ\l(MITIEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH 
ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL: 
••••.Good morning. We are on the reeord 
Today is November 12th, 2021, the time is 10 a.m., and we are convened in • • 
• • for the deposition of Mark Meadows to be conducted by the House Select Com­
mittee to Inv_estigate t,he January 6th. At.tack on t,he United St.ales Capitol. 
My name 1s • • • •. I am the designated select committee staff counsel for this 
r~::1!~~g~~%i~~;1!'>:~1
~~ !re:t :o:~it:!u!fa!T~!:i!:r~~ =~~ ~~!~~ ~~~~t!~ 
staff counsel; • • * *, select committee parliamentarian. 
And joining us virtually is• • * • and• • * *, who are select committee staff, 
as well as chief clerk to the selectcommiitee, • • • *. 
For the record, it is now 10:01 a.m., and Mr. Meadows is not present. The person 
transcr.ib!ng this proceeding is the House stenographer and notary public authorized 
toadmm1steroaths. 
On September 23rd, 2021, Chairman Bennie THOMPSON issued a subpoena to Mr. 
Meadows, both to produce documents by October 7th, 2021, and to testify at a depo­
sition on October 15th of2021 at 10 a.m 
The subpoena is in connection with the select committe es investigation into the 
facts, circumstances, and causes of the January 6th attack and issues relating to 
the peaceful transfer of power in order to identify and evaluate lessons learned and 
to recommend to the House and its relevant committees corrective laws, policies, 
procedures, rules, or regulations . 
After Mr. Meadows retained counsel, who is George Terwilliger , 111, the select 
committee agreed to postpone the subpoena deadlines to enable his counsel to un­
derstand the requests associated with the subpoena and work with Mr. Meadows 
Ultimately, by letter dated October 25th, 2021, the select committee set new dead­
lines to produce documents and appear for testimony. Mr. Meadows was required 
to produce documents by Novembe1· 5th, 2021, and appear for testimony on Novem­
ber 12th, 2021. 
By letters dated between October 25th and November 11th, the select committee 
engaged with counsel for Mr. Meadows. In the letters, the select committee ad­
dressed Mr. Meadows ' claims of, among other things, absolute testimonial immunity 
and executive privilege. 
In the letters, the select committee also instructed Mr. Meadows to assert his 
~~i:~~i!i b!!i::1!t irh: lc~l1~n_log for responsive documen ts and on a question by 
On November 10th, 2021, Mr. Meadows, through counsel, informed the select 
committee that he would not appear at today's deposition citing testimon ial immu- 53 
30 
nity and privileges. Specifica lly, counsel said that, quote, "Mr. Meadows cannot 
agree to appear at 10 a.m. Friday," end quote. 
Following that letter, the White House Counsel's Office sent counsel for Mr. 
Meadows a letter dated November 11th, indicating that the White House would not 
assert claims of testimonial immunity or executive privilege to prevent Mr. Mead­
ows' testimony before the select committee. 
Specifically, the letter states that President Bidcn, quote, "will not assert execu­
tive privilege with respect to your client's deposition testimony on these subjects, or 
any documents your client may possess that bear on them. For the same reasons 
underlying his dec_ision on executive privilege, President Bid":n ~as determined that 
he will_ not assert immunity to preclude your clienl from lestifymg before t,he Selecl 
Committee," end quole. 
The select commitlee then sent counsel for Mr. Meadows a final letter in light of 
the White House Counsel's Office"s stated position. To date, the select committee has 
not rceeived a response. 
In the letters, the select committee infonned Mr. Meadows, quote, "the Select 
Commitlce will view Mr. Meadows' failure to respond to the subpoena as willful non 
Co~!it~- ~u:n:~~~uln~~ki~~mth~a::tew~~t ~~e c~~~~ap;~~~~:i!in tte u~~lc.~ 
sections 192 and section 194-which could result m a referral from the House to 
;h~iJ:{~~i~e~t ;~1o~:!i~~:osrubi;;:~naab::;~~s;:rn:t~1:_s ii~~cFo!!i~~i~so~h~~n:~ 
capacity,"end quote. 
Mr. Meadows has not provided any documents or a privilege log, and Mr. Mead-
018 :ml ~:~kp:i~h1b~~di°~~ ~~~efn~~1itio;~;/ih~1!el~ri~~~fj:'cC:,~0~~bpoena 
~~;; ~~~:i:~ lit%u/tr~;i; ~e :~~~~ma;~, t:~i~~!~~ ,~~e~uiici:w:~~C:m~aen;~nbg 
production instructions, and a copy of the deposition rules.  54 
31 
Exhibit 1 -Subpoena to Mark Meadows  55 
SUBPOENA 
BY AUTHORITY OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES OF THE 
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
Mark Meadows 
To ____________________ ______ _______ _ 
0 You are hereby commanded to be and appear before the 
Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
of the House of Representatives ofd1e United States nt the place1 date, and time specified below. 
to produce the things identified on the attached schedule touching matters of inquiry committed to said 
committee or subcommittee; and you ure not to depart without leave of said commiUee or subcommitlee .. 
Place of produc'tion: 
Date: October 7. 2021 Time: 10:00 n.m. 
12] to testify at a deposition touching matters of inquiry committed to said committee or subcomm ittee; 
and you arc not to depart without leave of said commjttee or subcommittee. 
Place of testimony: 
Date: October 15, 2021 Time: 2:00 p.m . 
. D tq testify at a hearing touching matters of inquiry committed lO said commiUee or subcommittee; and 
you arc. not to depart without leave of said committee or subcommittee. 
I"-"'~-
. Date:________ Time: 
To any authorized staff member or the United States Marshals Service 
to serve and make return. --------------------------
Witness my hand and the seal of the House of Representatives of the United States, at 
the city of Washington, D.C. thjs A 3 ,../ day of fem~(/' , 20 :J.,J  56 
PROOF OF SERVICE 
Subpoena for Mark Meadows 
I\. lo '7t.<,ft: Cws:t I a..--ltvr!'Y_) .p,. r m,,-. }1//c,,_,,{,,..,r 
Address 
before the Select Committee to lnvesUgate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
U.S. House of Representat fres 
117th Congre~, 
Served by (print name)  57 
lCELOl'OflEN.C4LIFOAN._,, 
..OU..8.SCM•FF.c,,.urCA N._,, 
m.~~ M~f~ICA 
EIA,Nf:G.LUAIA_'IIAGl~IA 
UZCHElwE't' Wl'OMING 
ADAMK.1.vzlNGEfl 1t.u,,,ois ®nr Jiuni'lrr?I 8'rutntrrntJ1 Oiongrrau t,$-.. olPcp,H..,,..,..., 
W•~"'II'"" DC21.l!i15 
lodrct <r.mumittr, tu llnuratigntr ti!• &nuaru 6tQ Attack on !Qt l~ntttb lotatrs C!!upitol 
The Honorable Mark R. Meadows 
c/o Mr. Scou Gast 
Compass Legal Services 
Dear Mr. Meadows: September 23. 2021 
Pursuant to the authorities set forth in House Resolution 503 and the rules of the House of 
Representatives, the Select Commitlee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
("Select Commiuee") hereby transmits a subpoena that compels you to produce the documents set forth in the 
accompanying schedule by October 7, 2021, and to appear for a deposition on October 15, 2021. 
The Select Committee is investigating the facts, circumstances , and causes of the January 6th attack and 
issues relating to the peaceful transfer of power, in order to identify and evaluate lessons learned and to 
r<Xommend to the House and its relevant committees corrective laws, policies. procedure s, rules, or regulations. 
The inquiry includes examination or how various individua ls and entities coordinated their activities leading up 
to the events of January 6, 202 l. 
The investigation has revealed credible evidence or your involvement in events within the scope of the 
Select Committee's inquiry. You were the President's Chief of Staff and have critical information regarding 
many elements of our inquiry. It appears that you were with or in the vicinity of President Trump on January 6, 
had communications with the President and others on January 6 regarding events at the Capitol, and are a 
witness regarding activities of that day. Moreover, it has been reported that you were engaged in multiple 
elements of the planning and preparation of efforts to contest the presidential election and delay the counting of 
electoral votes. In addition, according to documents provided by the Department of Justice, while you were the 
President's Chief of StafT, you directly communicated with the highest officials at the Department of Justice 
requesting investigations into election fraud matters in several statcs.1 We understand that in the weeks after the 
November 2020 election, you contacted several state officials to encourage investigation of allegations of 
election fraud, even afl.er such allegations had been dismissed by state and federal couns, and after the Electoral 
College had met and voted on December 14, 2020.2 Moreover, at least one press report indicates you were in 
communication with organizers of the January 6 rally, including Amy Kremer of Women for America First.3 
1 Documents en file with the Committee. 
2 Linda So, Trump's Chief ofS1afJCn11/d FaceScmtiny in Georgia Cl'iminal Probe (Reuters, March 19, 2021}; Documents 
on file with the Commince. 
3 Joshua Kaplan & Joaquin Sapien. New Details Suggest Sc11ior Trump Aides Knew J,111. 6 Rally Could Get Clwotic, 
PR0PUBLICA (June 25, 2021 ), h1tps://www.propublica.9rg/anicle/new-detajls.5uggest-senior-trump-aides-knew-jan-6-rally-cculd-get­
chnotic.  58 
The Honorable Mark R. Meadows 
Page 2 
Accordingly, the Select Committee seeks both documents and your deposition testimony regarding these and 
other matters that are within the scope of the Select Committee's inquiry. 
A copy of the rules governing Select Committee depositions , and document production definitions and 
instructions arc attached. Please contact staff for the Select Committee a,■■■■ lto arrange for the 
production of document s. 
Sincerely, 
Bennie G. Thompson 
Chainnan  59 
The Honorable Mark R. Meadows 
Page 3 
SCHEDULE 
In accordance with the attached Defmitions and Instructions, you, Mr. Mark Meadows, are hereby required to 
produce, all documents and commmlica tions in your possession, custody, or control-including auy such 
documents or communicat ions stored or located on personal devices (e.g., personal computers, cellular phones, 
tablets, etc.), in personal or campaign _ accounts, and/or on personal or campaign applications (e.g., email 
accounts, contact lists, calendar entries, etc.)-referring or relating to the following items. Ifno date range is 
specified below, the applicable dates are for the time period April 1, 2020-present. 
1. Communications referring or relating in any way to plans, efforts, or discussions regarding challenging, 
decertifying, overturning, or contesting the results of the 2020 Presidential election. 
2, All documents and communications concerning the role of the Vice President as the Presiding Officer in 
the certificat ion of the votes of the electoral co~lege. 
3. From November 3, 2020, through January 20, 2021, all documents and communications referring or 
relating to the 2020 election results sent or transmitted between White House officials and officials of 
state or local governments. 
4.' From November 3, 2020, through January 6, 2021, all documents and communicatio ns referring or 
relating to actual or potential court decisions, deliberations, or processes involving challenges to the 
2020 Presidential election. 
5, All recordings, transcripts, notes (including electronic and hand-written notes), summaries, memoranda 
of conversation, readouts, or other documents memoriali zing communicat ions between you and 
President Trump and/or Members of Congress on January 6, 2021, relating or referring in any way to the 
attack on the Capitol. 
6. All documents that refer or relate to efforts, plans, or attempts by President Trump to activate the 
National Guard on January 6, 2021. 
7. From November 3, 2020, through January 19, 2021, all documents and communications concerning the 
resignation of any White House personnel or any politically appointed personnel of any Federal 
department or agency (including the resignation of any member of the President's Cabinet) and 
mentioning or referring (explicitly or implicitly) to the 2020 Presidential election or the events of 
January 6, 2021. 
8. AU documents and communications relating to planned protests, marches, public assemblies, rallies, or 
speeches in Washington, DC, on November 14, 2020, December 12, 2020, or January 5, 2021, or 
January 6, 2021. 
9. All documen ts and communications related to security of the Capitol or other Federal facilities on 
January 5, 2021, and January 6, 2021. 
10. From December 1, 2020, through January 20, 202 l, any documents and communications involving 
White House personne l and any Member of Congress, referring or relating to (a) civil unrest, violence, 
and/or attacks at the Capitol; (b) challenging, overturning, or questioning the validity of the 2020 
election results; (c) the counting of the electoral college vote on January 6, 2021; or (d) appealing or 
challenging the decisions of courts related to the 2020 Presidential election.  60 
Tbe Honorable Mark R. Meadows 
Page 4 
11. All documents and communications related to social media information monitored, gathered, reviewed, 
shared, or analyzed by White House personne l on January 6, 2021. 
12. All documents and communications related to any plan for the President to march or walk to the Capitol 
on January 6, 2021. This request includes any such documents or communications related to a decision 
not to march or walk to the Capitol on January 6, 2021. 
13. From November 3, 2020, to January 20, 2021, all documents and communications repol1ing, 
summarizing, or detailing the voting returns and election results of the 2020 Presidential election. 
14. All documents and communications related tO Donald Trnmp's response or reaction to the election 
results of the 2020 Presidential election, including but not limited to any planned public remarks. 
15. All documents and communications regarding a November 9, 2020, memorandum from Attorney 
General William Barr concerning investigation of voter fraud allegations. 
16. From November 3, 2020, through January 20, 2021, all documents provided to you or Donald Trump 
reviewing, assessing, or reporting on the security of election systems in the United States. 
17. From November 3, 2020, through January 20, 2021, all documents and communications provided to 
Donald Trump regarding purported election irregularities, election-re lated fraud, or other election­
related malfeasance. 
18. From April I, 2020, through January 20, 2021, all documents and communications provided to you or 
Donald Trump referring to a stolen election, stealing the election, or a "rigged" election. 
19. From November 3, 2020, through January 20, 20211 all documen ts and commun ications related to the 
Twenty-Fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. 
20. Any documents and communications relating to instructions to stop or delay preparation for the 
transition of administrations. 
21. All communicat ions between White House personnel and General Services Administration (GSA) 
Administrator Emily Murphy or other GSA officials relating to "ascertainment" under the Presidential 
Transition Act. This includes but is not limited to communications discussing the recognition of Joseph 
Bid en as the winner of the 2020 Presidential election. 
22. All documents and communications concerning the potential invocation of the Insurrection Act. 
23. From November 3, 2020, through January 20, 2021, all documents and cOLmnunications related to 
martial law. 
24. All documents and communications concerning the use of Federal law enforcement or military 
personnel during voting or vote counting in the 2020 Presidential election. ~ 
25. Any documents and communications relating to foreign influence in the United States 2020 Presidential 
election through social media narratives and disinfonnation. 
26. All documents and communications related to the January 3, 2021, letter from ten former Defense 
Secretaries warning of use of the military in election disputes.  61 
The Honorable Mark R. Meadows 
Page 5 
27. All docum~nts and communicat ions to or from the United States Secret Service concerning individuals 
in attendance at the January 6 rally in body armor, ballistic helmets, radio equipment , and "military 
grade" backpacks.  62 
DOCUMENT PRODUCTION DEFINITIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS 
I. In complying with this request, produce all responsive documents , regardless of 
classification level, that are in your possession, custody, or control, whether held by 
you or your past or present agents, employees, and representatives acting on your 
behalf. Produce all documents that you have a legal right to obtain, that you have a 
right to copy, or to which you have access, as well as documents that you have 
placed in the temporary possession, custody, or control of any third party. 
2. Requested documents, and all documents reasonably related to the requested 
documents, should not be destroyed, altered, removed, -transferred, or otherwise 
made inaccessible to the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on 
the l)nited States Capitol ("Committee '). 
3. J.n the event that any entity, organizat ion, or individual denoted in this request is or 
has been known by any name other than that herein denoted, the request shall be 
read also to include that alternative identification. ' 
4. The Committee's preference is to receive documents in a protected 
electronic form (i.e., password protected CD, memory stick, thumb drive, or 
secure file transfer) in lieu of paper productions. With specific reference to 
classified material, you will coordinate with the Committee's Security 
Officer to arrange for the appropriate transfer of such information to the 
Committee. This includes, but is not necessaril y limited to: a) identifying 
the classification level of the responsive document(s); and b) coordinating 
for the appropriate transfer of any classified responsive document(s). 
5. Electronic document productions should be prepared according to the 
following standards: 
a. If the production is comp~eted through a series of multiple partial 
productions , field names and file order in all load files should match. 
b. All electronic documents produced to the Committee should include the 
following fields of metadata specific to each document, and no 
modifications should be made to the original metadata: 
BEGDOC, ENDDOC, TEXT, BEGATTACH, ENDATTACH, 
PAGECOUNT, CUSTODIAN, RECORDTYPE, DATE, TIME, 
SENTDA TE, SENTTIME, BEGINDAT E, BEGINTIME, END DA TE, 
ENDTIME, AUTHOR, FROM, CC, TO, BCC, SUBJECT, TITLE, 
FILENAME, FILEEXT, FILEStZE, DATECREATED , TIMECREATED , 
DATELASTMOD, TIMELASTMOD , INTMSGID, INTMSGHEADER, 
NATIVELINK, INTFILPATH, EXCEPT ION, BEGATTACH.  63 
6. Documents produced to the Committee should include an index describing the 
contents of the production. To the extent more than one CD, hard drive, memory 
stick, thi1mb drive. zip file, box, or folder is produced, each should contain an 
index describing its contents. 
7. Documents produced in response to this request shall be produced together with 
copies of file labels, dividers, or identifying markers with which they were 
associated when the request was served. 
8. When you·produce documents, you should identify the paragraph(s) or request(s) 
in the Committee's letter to which the documents respond. 
9. The fact that any other person or entity also possesses non-identical or identical 
copies of the same documents shall not be a basis to withhold any information. 
10.· The pendency ofor potential for litigation shall not be a basis to 
withhold any information. 
11. In accordance with 5 U.S.C.§ 552(d), the Freedom oflnformation Act (FOJA) 
and any statutory exemptions to FOIA shall not be a basis for withholding any 
information. 
l2. Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. § 552a(b)(9), the Privacy Act shall not be a basis for 
withholding infonnation. 
13. 1f compliance with the request cannot be made in full by the specified return date, 
compliance shall be made to·the extent possible by that date. An explanation of 
why full compliance is not possible shall be provided along with any partial 
production, as well as a date certain as to when full production will be satisfied. 
14. ln the event that a document is withheld on any basis, provide a log containing the 
following information concerning any such document: (a) the reason it is being 
withheld~ including, if applicable, the privilege asserted; (b) the type of document; 
(c) the general subject matter; (d) the date, author, addressee , and any other 
recipient(s); (e) the relationship of the author and addressee to each other; and (f) 
the basis for the withholding. · 
15. If any document responsive to this request was, but no longer is, in your 
possession, custody, or control, identify the document (by date, author, subject, 
and recipients), and ex.plain the circumstances under which the document ceased 
to be in your possession, custody, or control. Additionally, identify where the 
responsive document can now be found including name, location, and contact 
information of the eatity or entities now in possession of the responsive 
document(s). 
16. If a date or other descriptive ~etail set forth in this request referring to a document  64 
is inaccurate, but the actual date or other descriptive detail is known to you or is 
otherwise apparent from the context of the request, produce all documents that 
would be responsive as if the date or other descriptive detail were correct. 
17. This request is continuing in nature and applies to any newly-discovered 
information. Any record, document, compilation of data, or information not 
produced because it has not been located or discovered by the return date shall be 
produced immediately upon subsequen t location or discovery. 
18. All documents shall be Bates-stamped sequentially and produced sequentially. 
19. Upon completion of the production, submit a written certification, signed by you or 
your counsel, stating that: (1) a diligent search has been completed of all 
documents in your possession, custody, or control that reasonably could contain 
responsive documents; and 
(2) all documents located during the search that are responsive have been produced 
to the Committee. 
.IWlll.l1l!wi 
1. The term "document" means any written, recorded, or graphic matter of any nature 
whatsoever, regardless of classification level, how recorded, or how 
stored/disp layed (e.g. on a social media platform) and whether original or copy, 
including, but not limited to, the following: memoranda, reports, expense reports, 
books, manuals, instructions, financial reports, data, working papers, records, notes, 
letters, notices, confirmation s, telegrams, receipts, appraisals , pamphlets , 
magazines , newspapers, prospectuses, communications, electronic mail (email), 
contracts, cables, notations of any type of conversation, telephone call, mf!eting_ or 
other inter-office or intra-office communication, bulletins, printed matter, computer 
printouts, computer or mobile device screenshots/sc reen captures, teletypes, 
invoices, transcripts, diaries, analyses, returns, summaries, minutes, bills, accounts, 
estimates, projections, comparisons , messages, correspondence, press releases, 
circulars, financial statements, reviews, opinions, offers, studies and investigations, 
questionnaires and surveys, and work sheets (and all drafts, preliminary versions, 
alterations, modifications, rc'-'.isions, changes, and amendments of any of the 
foregoing, as well as any attachments or appendices thereto), and graphic or oral 
records or representations of any kind (including without limitation, photographs, 
charts, graphs, microfiche , microfilm, videotape, recordings and motion pictures), 
and electronic, mechanica l, and electric records or representations of any kind 
(including, without limitation, tapes, cassettes, disks, and recordings) and other 
written, printed, typed, or other graphic or recorded matter of any kind or nature, 
however produced or reproduced, and whether preserved in writing, film, tape, disk, 
videotape, or otherwise. A document bearing any notation not a part of the original 
text is to be considered a separate docwnent. A draft or non-iden~ical copy is a 
separate documen t within the meaning of this term.  65 
2. The term "communication" means each manner or means of disclosure or 
exchange of information, regardless of means utilized, whether oral. electronic, 
by document or otherwise, and whether in a meeting, by telephone, facsimile, 
mail, releases, electronic message including email (desktop or mobile device), text 
message, instant message, MMS or SMS message, message application, through a social 
media or online platform, or otherwise. 
3. The terms "and" and "or" shall be construed broadly and either conjunctively or 
disjunctively to bring within the scope of this request any information that might 
otherwise be construed to be outside its scope. The singular includes plural number, 
and vice versa. The masculine jncludes the feminine and neutral genders. 
4. The term "including" shall be construed broadly to mean "including, but not limited 
to." 
5. The term "Company" means the named legal entity as well as any units, firms, 
partnerships, associations, corporations, limited liability companies, trnsts, 
subsidiaries, affiliates, divisions, departments, branches, joint ventures, 
proprietorships, syndicates, or other legal, business or government entities over 
which the named legal entity exercises control or in which the named entity has any 
ownership whatsoever. 
6. The term "identify," when used in a question about individuals, means to 
provide the following infonnation: (a) the individual's complete name and title; 
(b) the individual's bu~iness or personal address and phone number; and (c) 
any and all known aliases. 
7.-The term "related to" or "referring or relating to," with respect to any given 
subject, means anything that constitutes, contains, embodies, reflects, identities, 
states, refers to, deals with, or is pertinent to that subject in any manner 
whatsoever. 
8, The term "employee" means any past or present agent, borrowed employee, 
casual employee, consultant, contractor, de facto employee, detailee, 
assignee, fellow, independent contractor, intent, joint adventurer, loaned 
employee, officer, part-time employee, permanent employee, provisional 
emPloyec, special government employee, subcontractor, or any other type of 
service provider. 
9. The term "individual" means all natural persons and all persons or entities 
acting on their behalf.  66 
"""':\'1 
January 4, 2021 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE H41 
health, safety, e.nd well-being ol others 
pl'(lsent In the Ch!lmber and ourronnding 
areas. Members and etarr will not be per­
mitted to enter the Hall of the House with­
out woo.ring a mask. Ma.akll will bo available 
at tho entry polnta for any Member who for­
gets to bring one. The Chair vlewa the f!\.llure 
to wear a mask as a serloue b1·0Mh of d1:100-
rum. The &erreant-at-Al'lllll Is dlroot;OO to en­
force thle poltcy. Ba.ead upon th11h11(1.Jth and 
&afety guldan()(I from the attending physi­
cian and the BeI"ll"-'l\nt.-at-Arms, the Chair 
wo11ld further advlae that all Members 
llhould leave the OhamOOr promptly art.er 
oa.11tlng their vot.ea. Furthermore, Members 
ahouldavoldoongregat.lngin tho rooms lead­
ing t.o tho Chamber, Including the SI>&8,ker's 
lohby. Tho Ohair will continue the pr&.etloe 
of providing small groups of M&mbeNI with a 
minimum or Ii mlnutos wtthln which to CMt 
their votce. Membeniareencoura.ged to vote 
with their )ll'i!Vlon!!ly aMignod gl'OUJl. A!Wr 
vo~lng, Membere must clear the Chamber W 
11.llow tho noxt wroup a safe 11.lld sufficient op­
portunity to vot&. It Is essential for the 
health and 61lfety of Members, staff, and the 
U.S. Capitol Pollce to conalatently pn.ctloe 
1100l11.l dll!t.anol ng a.nd to snsure that a 111110 
capacity be maintained In the Cbe.mber at 
all times. 'l'o tha.t end., the Chair appreola.tes 
theoooperatlonofMembereandste.fflnpre-
116rvlng order and docorum In the Cllamber 
and In dJapla.ytng respect and lffl.fety for one 
another by woal'ing a maak and practicing 
aoola.l distancing. All announced polio!os, ln­
oludlng thoso addr&aalng deaoram In debt\te 
and the conduct of votes by e\eetronlo do­
vlee, she.II be carried out In harmony with 
tbls policy during the p,.mdcnoy of a covered 
period. 
117TH CONGRESS REGULATIONS 
FOR USE OF DEPOSITION AU­
THORITY 
CoMMl'l'I'l!.'1 ON RULHS, 
HOUS& OF REPRESBNTATIVKS, . 
Washlngt\111, DC, January 4, 2021. 
H\ln. NANOY PELOSI, 
S'f)taker, !lo1Ue\l/Reprnsentattves, 
Washington, DC. · 
MADAM Sn::flXBR: Purarumt t;o section 3(b) 
of Hou.eo Re11olutlon 8, 117th Oor.grellll, I here­
by submit thtl following rot:Ulattona regard­
Ing tht! conduct or dt!posltlons by comm!tWe 
and&eleotoommltteeoounse l fol'prlnUngln 
theCongre11eional Rocord. 
Slncenily, 
JAMES P. MoQOVRRN, 
Choinnan, Committee 011 Rule,. 
11.liGUI.ATIONB \l'OR Tllfl USB OF DSP08ITION 
AU"l'llORITY 
1. Nottcoe for tho taking o! depos!Uone 
11ha.J.l.11pecifythodo.ta, time, a.nd plll-Ce orex­
&mlnat!on. Oep011ltlons shall be takon under 
oath administered by a member or & person 
otherwiae authorized to admlnleter oath!!. 
Depositions may continue from day to day. 
2. Consult.atlon with the ranking minority 
member eha.ll lncludo th1'8e days' not.Ice bo­
furtt any doJl)'-'l:l!tiun ls t.ako11. All members or 
tho oommltt,co shall also receive th.ree da~ 
written notice that a deposition will be 
ta.ken, except In ai,:;1gont circumstances. For 
purpoaosor those proceduroe, a day shall not 
lnolude Saturdays, Sund!lys, or legal l1011-
days except when tbe Houee 10 In 11e1111lon on 
such a.day. 
3, Witnesses may 00 accomoa.nied a.t a de])­
Ollltlon by porson.al. nongovernmental cou.n-
1:1el to advlao lhem of their rights. Only men1-
bers, oommltte& 11tft.ff deelgnated by the 
chair or ranking minority member, an orn­
clal roport<lr, the witne1111, o.nd tho witne113'11 
counsel are permltt;odto att"'nd. 00$1.11-vere 
oroounse\ forotllerpel'!lons, !noludlng ooun­
selforgovernmontagenc!es, m1ynotattand. 4. The chair of the committee not!olng tho 
deposition may designate that depoeltlon as 
pat·t or l'I Joint lnveat\gatlon between oom­
mltteea, !illd In that oa.ae, provlclo notloo to 
tho members or the commltteoo, If 11uch a. 
designation Ill macle, the chfl.lr and l"!lnklng 
minority member of the additional oom­
mlttoe(s) may d011Jgn11,te committee staff to 
attend pursuant to regulation 3. M1.1mbo1'3 
and designated 11t...ff of th1.1 oommltt11es may 
attend a.nd 11.11k questions as11et forth below. 
6. A depoaltlcn llhn.Jl be conducted by e.ny 
member or committee counsel dooignated by 
the chair or ranktnii minority member of lhe 
Comrntttoo that noticed the deposition. 
When depo111tlo0ll are conduoted by com­
mittee oounsel, there shall ))o no more th11,n 
two committee oounael permltted·to ques­
tion a wltnese por round. Ona of the com­
mittee ooun!l<ll shall be deelgno.ted by the 
oh!l.lr l\Ild the other by the mnklng minority 
member per round. 
G. D1.1poslt!on quost!ona ehall be pro­
pounded In rounds. The lsr,gth of ee.ch round 
shall not exceed 80 minutes per side, 11,11d 
'llhl\ll provide equal time to the ~Jorlty 11,11<1 
the minority. In llllCh round, the member(&) 
or committee conneel designated by the 
ohalr shall ask questlows fil'st, and the mom­
ber(s) or committee COUOllSI doslgnated by 
the ranking minority member shall a.i;k 
questions second, 
7. ObJeotlons must be st.a.tad cono!Bely and 
In a non-argument.a.t tve and non-auggostlve 
manner. A wltu='s counsel m&y not In­
struct I\ wltnes.1 to refa.se to l\nsw1.1r R quea­
tlon, e:11:cept to preservo a prlv!lege. ln the 
event o!profellS!ona l, eth!ca.l, or other mis­
conduot by the witness's cou1U1el during the 
deposition, the Committee may take M1y ap­
propriate dlsclpllne.ry a.ot!on. The witness 
mo.y refuse Lo e.n11wer I\ question only to pl'8-
serve a privilege, When the wltn6BS has 1'8-
tuaed to !\newer n question w preserve a 
privilege, members or 11ta.rr ml\y (I) proeeod 
with the deposition, or (Ii) olthor at that 
time or at I\ subaequen~ time, seek I\ ruling 
from the Ohair either by teleJJhOns or other­
wise, (! the Cha.Ir ovorrules a!lY such obJoc­
tlon and thereby orders a witness to answer 
any auest1011 to which an objection W!UJ 
lodged, the wltnea~ she.II be orderod to M­
awer. If a member or the committee chooSOII 
toappefti the ruling cf the chair, sueho.ppe11.I 
muet be made within three days, In writing, 
aud shall be proserved for commltte1.1 co11111d­
eratlon. 'J'he Committee's ruling on appsal 
s11all be filed with th1.1 clerk of the Com­
mittee and shnli be provided to the members 
and wltnoos no leBII than three days before 
the reconvened <leposltJon. A deponent who 
r!.lfusoa to a11Swsr a aueatlon after being dl-
1-ected to al\llwer by tho cl1alr may bo subJeot 
t.o sanotJon, except that no sanotlons m!ly bo 
Imposed if tho ruling of the cha.Ir Is rovef'!led 
l)y tho comm!tt.ee on appeal. 
8. The Comml~tse ohl\lr shall ensure that 
ths lieetlnlony 18 either tran.scrlbed or eleo­
tronloally recorded or both.Ha witnoBS's 
testimony 111 transorlbed. the wttneBSor the 
witnosa'e oounsel shall l>o afrordsd an oppor­
t11nlty to review" oopy. No la.t11i-thl\u nvo 
days aftsr tho wltno86 ho.a been notified or 
tho opportunity to review the transorlpt, the 
Wltn069 may submit suggeated changoS to 
the obair. Commlttoo etaIT may make any 
typograpbtoa. l and technical eha.ngea, Sub­
ata-ntlve changes. rood10ca.tlons, cla.ri!1ca­
tion11, or amendmentll to the deposition tran­
script submitted by the wltnesa mUBt be l\C­
comimnled by a Jetter slgv.ed by the wltne!IB 
requeetlng the ohange11 and a statemen t or 
the witno11e's re11a01U1 for ea.oh propoeed 
oha.nge. Any sul>sta.ntlva changes, modlf\oa+ 
tlons, clarlrloatlona, ot' amendments ~ball be 
Included a.a an appendix t.o the tra.nsorlpt 
coml1tloned upon the witnsi,a signing the 
transcript. 9. Tho lndlv!dna l administe ring the oa.tb, If 
other than l'I member, shall certify on the 
tranSCl'!pt that the w1tn638 was duly sworn, 
'.rho transorll;>or shall certify that the tran­
script 1B a true record or the testimony, IUld 
the tra-nsorlpt ahall be med, Wgethor with 
any electronlo rooordlng, with tho clerk of 
tho comm!tt;,ee In Wa.ahlngton, DC. Dopos!­
tlons Bhall be conslclorecl to have been ta.ken 
In Washington, DC, aa well aa tho location 
a.ot11a.lly taken once !lled thel'e with the 
clork ot the oommlttoe !or the eommltteo's 
u11e, 'l'he chair 1md tho rariklng ml.nor1ty 
member shall be provided with a copy of tl,e 
transcripts or the tleposltton 11.t the same 
tlme. 
10. Tllo chair e.nd ranking mlnotlty mem­
ber shall colll!ult regl\rding the releue or 
deoosltlon testlmony, transcri pts. or rsoord­
lngs, I\Dd portions thereof. It either obJecl.e 
In writing to a proposed 1'6leM1e of a deoosl­
tion testimony, tmnsorlpt, or recording, or a 
portion t.heroof, the matter shall b8 prompt­
ly nirerred to tho committee for resolution. 
11. A witness she.II uot be required to tes­
tify unleH the wltrieu ha.a b9en provided 
with a oopy or section 3(b) or H. Rea. 8, 117th 
Congre~s. a.ml those regulations . 
REMOTE COMMITTEE PRO-
CEEDINGS REGULATlONS PURSU­
ANT TO HOUSE RESOLUTION 8, 
117TH CONGRESS 
COMMl'l"I'Eli: ON RULES, 
HOUSB OF REPREf!L'WATIVl!IS, 
Waslunglon, DC, January 4, 2021. 
Hon. NAt;CY PELOSI, 
Speak.er, Huwe of Representatives, 
WMhl11J,tOn,DC . 
MADAM SPEAKER: PUl'll1a.nt to ~eotlon 3(s) 
or House Rosolutlon 8, 117th Congre:13, l horo­
by submit the following regul11.tlon1:1 regard­
Ing remote commlttoo proceedin gs tor l)l'int­
lng ln the COt;OI\.XSS IONAL RIICORO. 
Sincerely, 
JAMES P. McGoV!!IUI, 
Chairman, 
Commi.tlceonRu!es. 
Rl!.MOTII 00Mldl'l'I'Ji:I,! PROCEEDINGS RJl;GUW.­
TIC!ill PU!l.3UA?fi' '1'0 HOUSE 8.J£SOL1J'l' ION 8 
I. Membsr:e 1)4.rtlclp&tlng remotely In a 
committee prooootllng must be visible on tho 
softwo.ro plat!o1·m'svldeo funotion to be con­
sidered In attendance and to pe.rt!cipe.te nn­
lea.s oonnecttvtty 1sauos or othsr tochnlcl\ l 
probloiru,ronder tho membex unable to fully 
p,.~rtlclpato on 0&msra (except a.a provided ln 
reguJatlonsA.2andA.3). 
2. The exception In relfUlatlon A.I for 
eonnootlvtty lssuee or other technlca.l prob­
lems dOOll not a.vply If a oolnt of ordo,r hM 
besn mads that a quorum le not present. 
Members parUclpatl ng remotely must be 
visible on the ooftwlil.l'e p\11.tform'e v\tlee tunc­
tlon In order W be oounted for the purpoee or 
establishing a quorum 
3. Tht1 t1><ouv~luJ1 Ju rogule.tlun A.1 for 
oonneotlYlty ls.suel:I or other teohnlea.1 p1·ob­
lema doos not l\pply during a voto. Msml>ors 
partlolpa.ttng remotely muet ho visible on 
tho &ortwan, platform's video function \11 
or<lertovote. 
4. Members partlclpat!ng remotely off­
ce.mera due to connoctlvlty UlsuOII or othor 
.Oohnloll-1 pro))lema pursuant to regul!l.tlon 
A.I must Inform committee majority and 
minority stQ.lf o1thcr dlrootlY er threu.gh 
5tatf. 
6, '!'he ohalr shl\11 mRke a good f!l.lth OffOl't 
00 provlcle .every member experiencing 
oonnectlvlty IBl!uee a.n opportunity to pn.r­
t!cipate fully In the pl'Oooedlng&, subje,:,t to 
regulatlens A.2 and A.3.  67 
32 
• • • •. I will mark as exhibit 2 and enter into the record a series of letters and 
emails exchanged between the select committee and counsel for Mr. Meadows. The 
records include email service of the subpoena by••••, which Mr. Scott Gast ac• 
cepted on Mr. Meadows' behalf on September 23rd, 2021. 
The records in exhibit 2 also include the letters and emails between counsel for 
ted~l~~ifi~~~:t~~/~~e ~;rie~~rr:r,Jeaet~~e1c~~NJrg 1r ~~~~~s!1:~~i;:,\~1i~fe°c 
on October 7th; an email from George Terwilliger to the select committee on October 
fs3;hie~~~~f~~0hi~et bihe0Whf~ nio':~1~~~n~f.~eom1:td~~:n~~~~be~01e1ft, 23kt 
c1:r~~~s0~~~rn~l 8tJeio':~e~ g.~;~:nTe'h~~:~: 1::fir ?~~~he6
~~1!c~~~~i~~ti~ 
~~~ft~!r:i~li~:i:mt~~ ~d:s~; f;~~et~:mfr~~e °:ir~~ T::~:rt~ to ~ha::;! 
Terwilliger on November 5th; a letter from George Terwilliger to the select com­
mittee on November 8th; a letter from the select committee to George Terwilliger 
on November 9th; a letter from George Terwilliger to the select committee on No­
vember 10th; and a letter from the select committee to George Terwilliger on No­
vember llt.h.  68 
33 
Exhibit 2 -Various Correspondence  69 
From: 
Sent: Wednesday , September 29, 2021 11 :00 AM 
To: 
Subject: FW: Subpoena to Mr. Meadows 
To: 
Cc: 
Subject: Re: Subpoena to Mr. Meadows 
I am confirming receipt of the subpoena to Mr. Meadows. 
For privacy reasons, we would ask that the address used on the proof of service document be changed to the address 
for Compass Legal Services or otherwise redacted. I would appreciate it if you would confirm whether that is possible. 
Thank you, 
Scott Gast 
Scott Gast 
On Thu, Sep 23, 2021 at 6:32 PM 
Dear Mr. Gast, wrote: 
We appreciate your confirmation today that you represent Mark Meadows and that you will accept service of a 
subpoena to Mr. Meadows on his behalf. I am following up to serve a subpoena to Mr. Meadows to produce 
documents and to provide testimony to the House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6"' Attack on the United 
States Capitol. Attached is a copy of the subpoena, a letter from Select Committee Chairman Bennie Thompson, a 
document schedule with accompanying production instructions, and a copy of the deposition rules. 
Please confirm that you have accepted this subpoena on Mr. Meadows's behalf.  70 
Sincerely , 
Chief Counsel and Deputy Staff o;rector 
Select Committee to Investigate the January (Jh Attack on the United States Capitol 
U.S. House of Representatives  71 
McGUIREWmos 
October 7, 2021 
Honorable Bennie G. Thompson, Chairman 
Honorable Liz Cheney, Vice Chair 
Select Committee to Investigate the Jnnuary 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
U.S. House of Re rcsentativcs 
Re: Subpoenas Served on Honorable Mark R. Meadows 
Dear Chair Thompson and Vice Chair Cheney: 
Please be advised that I have been retained to serve as counsel to Mr. Meadows in connection 
with the January 6th Select Committee's investigat ion and specifically. Committee subpoenas 
served on Mr. Meadows. 
lnasmuch as I was retained yesterday in this matter, please understand that my opportunity to, on 
behalf of my cticni., begin our cooperation with your investigation has been extremely limited. 
Nonetheless, r can inform the Committee of the following in response to the subpoena for 
production of documcnts _with a return date of October 7, 2021. We belitwe that any documents 
responsive to that subpoena would not be in Mr. Meadows personal care, custody or control, but 
rather would be in the possession of.the Archivist of the United States pursuant to the 
Presidential Records Act of 1978, 44 U.S.C. §§ 2201-2207. Despite that belief, we arc 
un<leriaking due diligc~ce to asccrtaiJl whether Mr. Meadows is in personal possession of any 
responsive documents and will report further to the Committee in that regard as soon as we have 
any pertinent and/or definitive iofonnation. 
As to the subpoe11afor testimony with a return date of October 15, 2021, I anticipate being in 
touch forthwith with the Committee's investigative stnffin that regard.  72 
Select Comminee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capilol 
October 7, 2021 
Page 2 
George J. Terwilliger lll 
cc:  73 
From: 
Sent: 
·To: 
Cc: 
Subject: RE: Subpoenas Served on Honorable Mark R. Meadows 
• 
Thank you for speaking yesterday about the Select Committee's subpoena to Mr. Meadows. Consistent with 
your request, I wanted ta get back ta you promptly about the October 15th return date for testimony. 
As you know we are facing the potential for conflicting directions from former President Trump and President 
Biden as to preservation of privileges concerning senior presidential advisors and cOmmunicatlon by same In 
that role. We are now scheduled to discuss privilege issues with the White Counsel's office on Thursday, most 
likely In the afternoon. 
In addition, after considering the topics you outlined yesterday, it is not clear to us that, in whole or part, 
relevant privileges would not attach to Mr. Meadows testimony as to those subject matters. We are, however, 
going to consider further those subject matters and may be able to proffer.information concerning knowledge 
or lack of knowledge as to aspects of some of those subjects that you may want to consider in deciding if further 
pursuing te.stlmony from Mr. Meadows as to such matters would be productive, privilege considerations 
notwithstanding. 
Thus, I am not currently In a position to either confirm that Mr. Meadows can testify o, to state at this point that 
he cannot do so. What Is clear, though, is that as a practical matter, I could not advise him under these 
circumstances to com.mit to testifying on October 15. 
Also, at this point we have asked the White House Counsel for access to documen ts that may be relevant to Mr. 
Meadows potentia'I testimony that have been released to the Committee by the Archivist per instruction s of the 
White House Counsel. Since Mr. Mecidows has not been consulted about any such production of potentially 
privileged documents arising from his tenure as the former President's Chief of Staff, we are unaware if any 
have actually been produced. I would respectfully extend our request for access to .any such documents to the 
committee as well. As you know so well, the testimony of any witness would be far more productive If afforded, 
as per standard practice, access to documents relevant to the witness's testimony. 
We are, of course, during our utmost to properly respect the Select Committee's subpoena and working 
diligently to address the various issues it raises. 
We will continue to give this matter prompt and close attention and appreciate your willingness to work with us. 
Regards, 
George Terwilliger 
Counsel for Mr. Meadows 
George J. Terwilliger Ill 
Partner - 74 
This e-mail from McGu/rewaads may contain confidential or privileged information . If you ore not the intended recipient, please 
advise by retum e-mail and delete immediately without reading or forwarding to others.  75 
McCuirtWoodt LU' 
October II, 202 I 
Honorable Dann A. Remus 
Counsel to the President 
The White House 
1600 Pennsylvania A venue NW 
Washington, DC 20500 
Re: Congressional Subpoena to Fonner White House Cbiefof Staff Mark R. Meadows 
Dear Ms. Remus; 
L write on behalf of my cJicnt, Mark R. Meadows, regarding a subpoena be recently received from 
the Select Committee lo the Investigate Lhe January 6th Attack on the United States Capilol of the 
U.S. House of Representatives. While now a private citizen, Mr. Meadows served as White House 
Chief of Staff under President Donald J. Trump during the period that is the focus of the Select 
Committee's invesligation. l write now because, as detailed below, Presidcnts 'and Presidentiul 
Administrations of both parties have long maintained the position that Congress cannot compel 
senior advisors to the President to testify or to produce records of their communications with and 
on behalf of the President The Select Committee's subpoena to Mr. Meadows threatens these 
importnntprinciples which safeguard the separation of powers enshrined in the U.S. Constitution . 
The Select Committee's subpoena ,. which Mr. Meadows received on September 23, 2021, seeks 
both records and testimony Tegarding Mr. MeadOws's tenure as White House Chief of Staff, 
including his communications with the President of the United States and other senior Executive 
Branch officials. A copy of the subpoena is attached. Mr. Meadows also received a letter, 1hrough 
counsel1 on October 6, 2021, from an attorney for President Trump regarding the subpoena. A 
copy of the letter is attached as well. 
Mr. Meadows has profound respect both for the Congress and for the Presidency as integral parts 
of the Federal Govemment established under the U.S. Constitution. He served four terms i,u the 
U.,$. House of Representatives , representing North Carolina's 11th District, before serving as 
White House Chief of Staff. He is commilled both lo fulfilling his legal obligations and to 
protecting the balance of power that underpins our American system of government.  76 
Honorable Dana A. Remus 
October 11, 2021 
Page 2 
I am therefore writing to you in hopes of clarifying information we have seen in public reports 
regarding President Biden's position on the Select Committee's subpoenas (which include 
subpoenas to other individuals from both inside and outside the Executive Branch) and to request 
the opportunity to discuss these important matters with you. 
Executive Branch Precedent 
As you know, !>residentia l Administrations of both parties have consistently maintained that 
privileged communications within the Executive Branch arc immwte from congressional 
subpoena. See, e.g., Assertion of bXecutive Privilege Over Deliberative Materials Regarding 
Inclusion of Citizenship Question on 2020 Census Questionnaire, 0.L.C. slip. op. (June 11, 2019) 
(Atty. Gen. William P. Barr); Assertion of Executive Privilege Over Documents Generated in 
Response to Congressional Investigation in(o Operation Fast and Furious, 36 Op. O.L.C. 1 (2012) 
(Atty. Gen. Eric 1-1. Holder, Jr.); Assertion of Executive Privilege Concerning Special Counsel's 
Interviews of the Vice President and Senior White House Staff, 32 Op. O.L.C. 7 (2008) (Atty. Gen. 
Michael B. Mukasey); Assertion of Executive Privilege Regarding White House Counsel's Office 
Documents, 20 Op. O.L.C. 2 (1996) (Atty. Gen. Janet Reno). Among other things, this position 
guards against "the chilling effect that compliance with [a congressional] subpoena would have on 
future White House deliberations." 32 Op. O.L.C. at 13. 
Considering this longstanding, bi-partisan tradition and its importance to the effective functioning 
of the Executive Branch, we were surprised to hear reports that you had directed the production of 
privileged White House documents without c0nsulting the officials from whom they originated. 
Of course, mistaken media reports would not be unprecedented. We also understand that not all 
recipients of the Select Committee's subpoenas may be similarly situated to Mr. Meadows. We 
therefore respectfully ask for you lo clarify whether you have directed the Archivist to produce 
privileged materials arising from Mr. Meadows' tenure as Chief of Staff to Congress, and if so, to 
clarify the scope of that directive. We also ask that, at an appropriate time and subject to 
appropriate conditions, you make any such production available to Mr. Meadows and to us as his 
counsel for the limited purpose Of responding to the Select Committee's subpoena. 
Document Production 
In response to the subpoena, we infonned the Select Committee on October 7, 2021, of our belief 
that all the potentially responsive records from Mr. Meadows' tenure as' Chief of Staff would be 
in the custody and control of the Archivist of the United States, consistent with the Presidential 
Records Act of 1978, 44 U.S.C. §§ 2201-07. We also expressed our intention to take appropriate 
steps to confirm that belief. On October 8, 2021, multiple media outlets reported that you had 
already instructed the Archivist of the United States to produce responsive materials to the Select  77 
Honorable Dana A. Remus 
October 11, 2021 
Page3 
Committee without any withholding or redaction based on executive privilege.1 Mr. Meadows 
recognizes that, as a public servant, he created records belonging to the United States and not to 
him personally. He asserts no personal stake in the disposition of thcsC records. But as former 
White House Chief of Staff, he also wants to ensure that the institution of the Presidency is 
protected and that the long-standing traditions which protect its operations arc not traded away for 
political expediency. 
Testimony 
Aside from its request for documents, the Select Committee has also sought to compel testimony 
from Mr. Meadows, We believe that, consistent with Executive Branch practice, Mr. Meadows is 
immune from being compelled to testify before Congress regarding his sctvicc as White House 
Chief of Staff. 
Long-standing Executive Branch tradition recognizes that senior White House officials enjoy an 
absolute immunity from compelled testimony before Congress. See Memorandum for All Heads 
of Offices, Divisions, Bureaus and Boards of the Department of Justice, from John M. Harmon, 
Acting Assistant Attorney General, Office of Legal Counsel, Re: Executive Privilege at 5 (May 
231 1977); Memorandum for John D. Ehrlichman1 Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs, 
from William H. Rehnquist, Assistant Attorney General, Office of Legal Counsel, Re: Power of 
Congressional Commiitee to Compel Appearance or Testimony of "White House Staff' (Feb, 5, 
1971). This immunity continues to apply even after senior officials leave the White House. See, 
e.g., Testimonial Immunity Before Congress of the Former Counsel to the President, O.L.C. slip 
op., at *2 (May 20, 2019) ("Testimonial Immunity Before Congress"); Immunity of the Former 
Counsel to the President from Compelled Congressional Testimony, 31 Op. O.L.C. 191, 192 
(2007). Testimonial immunity is also "distinct from, and broader than, executive privilegen in that 
it "extends beyond answers to particular questions, precluding Congress from compelling even the 
appearance of a senior presidential adviser-as a function of the independence and autonomy of 
the President himself." Testimonial Immunity Before Congress, O.L.C. slip op. at *4. 
Notwithstanding the public reports about the Select Committee's document requests, we have no 
reason to believ.e that President Biden bas purported to waive testimonial immunity for Mr. 
Meadows in connection with the Select Committee's subpoena. Ill the attached letter, former 
President Trump expressed his view that "Mr. Meadows is immune from compelled testimony on 
matters related to his official responsibilities," Ex. B (citing Testimonial Immunity Before 
Congress, O.L.C. slip op.). There are good reasons to preserve that immunity for the White House 
Chief of Staff, even if a decision has already been made to produce some otherwise privileged 
documents. 
1 See, e.g., Nicholas Wu et al,, Eiden White House waives executive privilege for Initial set of Trump-era documents 
sought by Jan. 6 panel, POLITICO (Oct. &I, 2021), available at https://www.politico.com/news/2021/10/0&/bannon­
jan-6-subpoeoa-515681.  78 
Honorable Dunu A. Remus 
October 11, 2021 
Page4 
The testimonial privilege vindicates the constitutional separation of powers. The President, as the 
head of a co-equal branch of government, stands on equal COLlstitutional footing with the Congress. 
For Congress to compel an immediate Presidential advisor-who serves as "an extension of the 
President" -"to appear and testify would <promote a perception that the President is subordinate 
to Congress, contrary to the Constitution's separation of governmental powers into equal and 
coordinate branches."' Testimonial Immunity Before Congres.,, O,L.C. slip op. at *4 (quoting 
immunity of the Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Political Strategy and 
Outreach from Congressional Subpoena, 38 Op. O.L.C. 5, 8 (2014) (''Immunity of the Assistant to 
the President"). 
The testimonial privilege also protects the prerogative of current and future White House officials 
to provide the President with the frank and candid advice required to discharge faithfully the· duties 
of the office. The Office of Legal Counsel emphasized this point in 2014 to explain why David 
Simas, Assistant to President Obflma, was not required to testify in response to a subpoena from 
the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reforn1: 
[A] congressional power to subpoena the President's closest advisers to testify 
about matters that occur during the course of discharging their official duties would 
threaten Executive Branch confidentiality, which is nocessary (among other things) 
to ensure lhat the President can obtain the type of soW1d and candid advice that is 
essential to the effective discharge of his constitutional duties, 
Immunity of the Assistant to the President, 38 Op. 0.L.C, at 8. That ofii.cc noted the Supreme 
Court's r-ecognition in United States v. Nixon, 418 U.S. 683 (1974), of'"the necessity for protection 
of the public interest in candid, objective, and even blunt or harsh opinions in presidentia l 
decisionmaking . '" Immunity of the As~'i1",1tant to the President, 38 Op. O.L.C. at 8 (quoting Nixon, 
418 U.S. at 708). 
Past Presidents have thus asserted privilege and testimonial immunity to protect senior officials 
from prior Administrations from opposite parties. See, e.g., Ellen Nakashima, Bush Invokes 
Ex.ecutive Privilege on Hill, Trrn WASHINGTON POST (Dec. 14, 2001) (discussing assertion of 
privilege by President George W. Bush over materials from the Administration of President 
William J. Clinton), available at https://www.wasb ingtonpost.com/arc hive/politics/2001/12/14/ 
bush-in vokes-executive-privilege-011-hil l/b05753fl -baf9-494b-ab52-3 3eb8e/7bd98/. 
We recognize that Congress has placed immense political pressure on the White House to waive 
executive privilege. in connection with the Select Committee's investigation, and that the 
AdministTation has already. chosen to do so in some circumstances. It is precisely when the 
political pressure is at itc:; strongest that the longstanding safeguards of the separation of powers 
become most important. 
We respectfully request an opportunity to discuss these matters with you before any decision is 
made that would purport to require Mr, Meadows to act contrary to Executive Branch precedent.  79 
Honorable Dana A. Remus 
October I I , 2021 
Page 5 
We appreciate your consideration of these important matters. We hope that you can clarify the 
record on the Select Committee's request for documents and afford us the opportun ity to speak 
with you about the testimonial immunity that shields Mr. Meadows from the Select Committee's 
subpoena. We are happy to make ourselves available to meet with you at your convenience. In 
the meantime, please do not hesitate to reach out with any questions. 
George J. Terwilliger III 
Counsel to Mr. Meadows 
Enclosures 
cc: 
Chief Tnvestigative Counsel 
Select Committee to Investigate the January 6Lh Attack on the United States Capitol  80 
ELECTIONS, LLC 
October 6, 2021 
Dear Mr. Gast: Attorneys al Law 
Justin R. Clark 
f write in reference to ll. subpoena, dated September 23, 2021, by the Select Committee to 
Investiga te the J.anuary 6th Attack on the United States Capito1 (the "Select Committee"), that wns · 
isSued to your client Mark R. Meadows (the u~ "). The Subpoena requests that Mr, 
Meadows produce documents by October 7, 20211 and appear for a deposition on October 15, 
2021. While it is obvious that the Select Committee's obsession with President Trump is merely 
a partisan altcmpt lo distract from the disastrou s Biden administra tion (e.g., the embrurnss ing 
withdrawal from Afghanistan, the Ovetwbelming flood of illegal immigrants crossiag our southern 
border, and growing inflation), President Trwnp vigorously objects to the overbreadth and scope 
of these requests and· believes they are a threat to the institution of the Presidency and the 
independence of the Executive Branch. 
Through the Subpoena, the Select Committee seeks records and testimony purportedly related to 
the events of January 6th, 2021, including but not limited to information which is unquestionab ly 
protected from disclosure by the executive and other privileges , including among others tbc 
presidential communications, deliberative process, and attorney-client privileges. President 
Trump is prepared to defend these fundamenta l privileges in court. Furthermore, President Trump 
believes that Mr. Meadows is im.mu~c from compelled congressional testimony on inattcrs related 
to his official responsibilities. See Testimonia l lmmunily Before Congress of the Former Counsel 
lo the President, 43 Op. O.L.C. (May 20,2019), a1,ailable at https://wwwjustice.gov/olc/o pin~ons­
main. 
Therefore, to the fullest cxlent permitted by law, President Tmmp-instructs _Mr.'Mcndows to: 
(a) where appropriate. invoke any immuniti es and privileges he m!ly have from compelled 
testimony in response to the Subpoena; (b) not produce any documen ts concerning his official 
duties in response to the Subpoena; and (c) no"t provide any testimony concerning his official duties 
in response to the Subpoena.  81 
Page 2 
Thank you for your attention to this matter. Please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any 
questions or would like to discuss. 
Justin Clark 
Counsel to President Trump  82 
BrNNI~ C, THc:.i~.~ MISSISSll'PI 
~,.,:.~~~;.~L=~~ 
PETE AGUl.AR. CAl.lf()f!N!A 
STI:PtlANIE N.MUAl"HV,FtORIOJ\ 
.lo'l.'111EIIASU'I.MAAYLAND 
EI.AINl:Ci .lUIIUA.VIIIGlll!A 
LaCHE/!IEV.WYOMING' 
ADAAIKhVDNG!R.kl.JNOIS @ne J!unbrtb t!>tuenteont~ (!lougrtss us . ....., .. ofRap,- 111,..,, 
W""""'9ton.OC1CSII 
~~zoi~1= 
!!>elect C£ommltttt to 1Juutstlgat, tl1• JJanuaru GtlJ Attach on t~• 1lniteb l!>tatto Qlapitol 
Mr. George Terwilliger Ill 
McGuire Woods LLP 
Dear Mr. Terwilliger, October 25, 2021 
The Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack ("Select Commirtee") is in 
receipt of your October 7, 20211 letter and your October 13, 2021, email and attached documents 
(the "correspo ndence") regarding the September 23, 2021, subpoena for documents and 
testimony served on your client Mark R. Meadows (the "subpoena"). The Select Committee is 
also in receipt of your October 11, 2021, letter addressed to Counsel to the President Dana A. 
Remus (the "letter to the White House"). You have also had calls with Select Committee staff 
about the subpoena , the most recent of which occurred on October 20, 2021. Based on the 
correspondence, the letter to the White House, and calls, I understand that Mr. Meadows believes 
that, as a fomtcr advisor to President Donald Trump, he may be immune from testifying before 
the Select Committee. In addition, I understand that Mr. Meadows believes that, even ifhe is not 
immune rrom testifying, his testimony may nonetheless be covered by a claim of executive 
privilege. 
Mr. Scott Gast accepted service of the subpoena on Mr. Mcadows's behalf on September 
23, 2021. The subpoena demanded that Mr. Meadows produce documents by October 7 and 
appear for testimony by October 15. The requested document's and testimony relate directly to 
the inquiry being conducted by the Select Committee, serve a legitimate legislative purpose, and 
arc within the scope of the authority expressly delegated to the Select Committee pursuant to 
House Resolution 503. In the letter accompany ing the subpoena, the Select Committee set forth 
the basis for its determination that the documents and records sought by the subpoena and Mr. 
Meadows's deposition testimony are of critical importance to the issues being investigated by the 
Select Committee. 
Your correspondence to the Select Committee, calls, and letter to the White House have 
suggeste d Mr. Meadows's belief in the potential existence of testimonial and subject-matter 
privileges. No such blanket testimonial immunity exists, and the Select Committee docs not 
believe that executive privileges bar the Select Committee from legally obtaining any aspects of 
Mr. Meadows's deposition testimony.  83 
Mr, George Terwilliger III 
Page 2 
First, the Select Committee has not received any assertion. fo1TI1al or otherwise, of any 
privilege from ex-President Trump with respect to Mr. Meadows's production of documents or 
appearance to provide testimony. 1 Even assuming that, as a former President, Mr. Trump is 
permitted to formally invoke executive privilege, he has not done so. The Select Committee is 
not aware of any legal authority , and your letter cites none, holding that a vague statement by 
somebody who is not a government official that an ex-President has an intention to assert a 
privilege absolves a subpoena recipient of his duty to comply. 
Second, your correspondence, communications with Select Committee staff, and letter to 
the White House indicate that Mr. Trump "believes that Mr. Meadows is immune from 
compelled congressional testimony on matters related to his official responsibilities." Even 
setting aside the fact that the Select Committee is interested in questioning Mr. Meadows , in part, 
about actions thai cannot be considered part of his "official responsibilities, " Mr. Meadows is not 
permitted by law to assert the type of blanket testimonial immunity that Mr. Trump and your 
letter to the White House suggest. To the contrary, every court lhat has considered the absolute 
immunity Mr. Trump alludes to has rejected it. Se€, e.g., Harlow v. Fitzgerald, 457 U.S. 800 
(1982); Comm. on the Judiciary v. Miers, 558 F. Supp. 2d 53, 106 (D.D.C. 2008) (rejecting 
former White House counsel's assertion of absolute immunity from compelled congressiona l 
process). Those cases make clear that even the most senior presidential advisors may not resist a 
congressional subpoena "based solely on their prox.imity to the President." Miers at 101 (citing 
Harlow, 457 U.S. at 810).2 And, although your letter to the White House cites several 
Department of Justice Office of Legal Counsel eoLC") opinions in which OLC insists that such 
immunity exists even after Miers, yet another judge has forcefully rejected that position after 
OLC's last memorandum opinion addressing absolute immunity. See Comm. on Judiciary v. 
McGahn, 415 F. Supp. 3d 148 (D.D.C. 2019) ("To make the point as plain as possible, it is clear 
to this Court ... that, with respect to senior-level presidential aides, absolute immunity from 
compelled congressional process simply does not exist."). 
Third, your correspon dence, communications with Select Committee staff, and letter to 
the White House indicate that Mr. Meadows also believes that his potential testimony would be 
protected as privileged communications within the executive branch. That is not the case. 
Executive privilege is a qualified privilege-not an absolute one-that may be invoked to 
prevent disclosure of communications with the President related to his official responsibilities , as 
well as deliberations about official responsibilities within the executive branch. With respect to 
Mr. Meadows, I understand that Select Committee staff has already discussed with you a non­
exhaustive list of deposition topics that fall outside of any executive -privilege claim, including: 
1 By civil complaint filed on October 19, 2021, in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, Mr. 
Trump has formally alleged that executive privileges should prevent the National Archives from producing Mr. 
Tntmp's White House documents to the Select Committee. That lawsuit does not formally assert any privilege with 
respect to Mr. Meadows and does not seek any relief related to the subpoena served on Mr. Meadows. 
2 It is also worth noting that the court in Miers rejected the former White House Counsel's claim of absolute 
immunity from congressional testimony even though the sitting President had formally invoked executive privilege. 
Id. at 62.  84 
Mr. George Terwilliger III 
Page 3 
communications and meetings involving people who did not work for the United States 
government; communications and meetings with members of Congress; Mr. Meadows's 
campaign-related activities; communicatio ns and meetings about topics for which the 
Department of Justice and the White House have expressly declined to assert executive privilege ; 
and, topics about which Mr. Meadows has already spoken publicly. Mr. Meadows must comply 
with the subpoena to answer questions about those and other issues, and his apparent reliance on 
a categoria l claim of executive privilege runs afoul of long-standing caselaw requiring that any 
claim of executive privilege be asserted narrowly and specifically. See, e.g., In re Sealed Case 
(Espy), 121 F.3d 729 (D.C. Cir. 1997); Comm. on Oversight & Gov'/ Reform v. Holder, No. 12-
cv-1332, 2014 WL 12662665, at *2 (D.D.C. 2014) (rejecting a "blanket" executive-privilege 
claim over subpoenaed documents). 
The Select Committee appreciates your ongo ing willingness to discuss Mr. Meadows's 
appearance, and the Select Committee agreed to postpone the subpoena deadlines to give you 
and Mr. Meadows an opportunity to consult with the White House counsel's office to facilitate 
our discussion of this and other scoping issues. It now appears that Mr. Meadows may still 
believe that his appearance cannot be compelle d and that his testimony is privileged. Given the 
impasse, the Select Committee must proceed and insist, pursuant to the subpoena, that Mr. 
Meadows produce all responsive documents by November 5, 2021, and appear for testimony on 
November 12, 2021. The Select Committee expects Mr. Meadows's production of documents 
and appearance for testimony on these dates. If there are specific questions at that deposition that 
you believe raise privilege issues, Mr. Meadows should state them at that time for the deposition 
record for the Select Committee's consideration and possible judicial review. 
Please be advised that the Select Committee will view Mr. Meadows's failure to respond 
to the subpoena as willful non-compliance. Such willful non-comp liance with the subpoena 
would force the Select Committee to consider invoking the contempt of Congress procedures in 
2 U.S.C. §§ 192, 194-which could result in a referral from the House to the Department of 
Justice for criminal charges-as well as the possibility of having a civil action to enforce the 
subpoena brought against Mr. Meadows in his personal capacity. 
Sincerely, 
Bennie G. Thompson 
Chairman  85 
c..,,.Ttt•"t"' McGUIREWCDDS 
November 3, 2021 
VIA EMAIL 
Honorable Bennie G. Thompson, Chairman 
Honorable Liz Cheney, Vice Chair 
Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capital 
U.S. House of Re rcscntativcs 
Re: Subpoenas Served on Honorable Mark R. MeadowR 
Dear Chair Thompson and Vice Chair Cheney: 
I write on behalf of Mr. Meadows in rnsponse to the reque~t for production of documents in the 
ScJcct Committee's subpoena. In your letter of October 25, 2021, you indicated that you were 
extending the return date for the production of documents to Friday, November 5, 2021. 
As I previously indicated in my letter of October 7, 2021, we believe that documents responsive 
to that subpoena arc not in Mr. Mcadows 's personal custody or control, but rather are in the 
possession of the Archivist of the United States pursuant to the Presidential Records Act of 1978, 
44 U.S.C. §§ 2201-2207. We understand thot the Select Committee has separately requested those 
records from the Archivist and that production of those letters is a current subject of litigation in 
the U.S. District Court for the Dislrict of Columbia. SeC Trump v. Thompson1 No, l :2 l-cv-2769-
TSC (D.D.C.). Mr. Meadows is not a pnrty to that litigation, though we understand that at least 
some of the documents at issue arc from his former records. To the extent that responsive 
documents reside with the Archivist, they are outside Mr. Meadows's custody and control, and he 
is therefore unable to produce them in response to the Select Committee's subpoena. We expect 
that the Select Committee will obtain any portions of Mr. Mcadows 's fonner records to which it 
may be entitled through its request to the Archivist,· subject to any applicable rulings from Lbe 
courts.  86 
Select Committee to Investiga te the January 6th Attack on the United States Capital 
November 3, 2021 
Page 2 
As I further indicated in my October 7 letter, and as I have explained our process to the Select 
Committee 's counsel again this week, we are diligently taking steps to confinn that Mr. Meadows 
docs not retain custody and control over documents that are responsive to the Select Committee's 
request, including through review of personal e-mail accounts and electronic devices. To date, we 
have not identified any such document s and therefore have no documen ts to produce. If we do 
discover any responsive , non-privileged documents , however, we will be prepared lo produce 
them. 
To summarize , we are not aware at this time or any documents that are responsive to the Select 
Committee's subpoena and maintained in Mr. Meadows's custody or control. We therefore have 
no documen ts to produce to the Select Commiltee this Friday, November 5. We are, however, 
diligently taking steps to confinn that no such document·s exist. And we agree that we would 
produce any responsive, non-privileged documen ts we might find. I would be happy to discuss 
these matters further with you or with the Select Committee's investigative staff. 
George J. Terwilliger 111 
cc:  87 
c"i,r"'""r"' McGUIREWmDS 
November 3, 2021 
VIAEMAJL 
Honorable Bennie 0. Thompson, Chairman 
Honorable Liz Cheney, Vice Chair 
Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capital 
U.S. House of Re resentatives 
Re: Subpoenas Served on Honorable Mark R. Meadows 
Dear Chair Thomps~n and Vice Chair Cheney: 
Than.k you for your letter of October 25, 202l, and thnnks to you and to the Select Committee for 
your willingness to engage with us on the important issues raised by the Select Committee's 
subpoena to former White Hou.,;;c Chief of Staff Mark Mead()WS. As your letter recognizes, these 
issues have been the frequent subject of litigation and of conflicting views between Congress and 
the Executive. 
One of the important themes coming out of that Litigation, and out of over 200 years of conflict 
between the branches, is that efforts to reach mutual accommodation s to resolve differences have 
been the norm. See, e.g., Tromp v. M02ars USA, LLP, 140 S. Ct. 2019, 2029-31 (2020). 
Considering that history of engagement to find accommodation-which the courts obviously 
favor-the Select Committee's position, as expressed in your letter, is rather surprising, and indeed 
disappointing. The Select Committee apparentJy rejects each and every consideration raised in 
our correspondence with the Select Committee and with the White House Counsel that bears on 
whether and to what ex.tent Mr. Meadows would be in a position to supply information to the 
Select Committee pursuant to its subpoena. 
The purpose of this letter is to explore whether the Select Committee is willing to pursue some 
accommodation with Mr. Meadows U1al respects the position in which he finds himself 1md allows 
Alldn\a IAll$th11 Bahimorc I d,aiiot:el Cb,rlottcsvlllc [ Oilcago I Dall• I HouHon IJ1ebonvfle I London I Los Mselcs • Ccni:uryOty 
LosAngt,le$ -(}(r,,,,1lown I Nt!JWYM I Norfolk I Plttnorgt, I ~lelgh I Richmond l $.in r.r.mclwol Tysons I W.1Sl1ingto11, D.C.  88 
Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capital 
November 3, 2021 
Page2 
the Committee to obtain information without abridging what Mr. Meadows be~ieves in good faith 
to be his legal obligations arising from his tenure as White House Chief of Staff. 
For context, fonner President Trump has directed Mr. Meadows, both in writing and orally. to 
maintain such privileges and immunities as apply to the demands of the Select Committee's 
subpoena. As you note in your letter, the former President has also filed a lawsuit challenging on 
various grounds the Select Committee's subpoena to the Archivist of the United States. While that 
lawsuit docs not directly implicate the Select Committee's subpoena for Mr. Meadows's 
testimony, there is no reasonable doubt that the issues of privilege and valid legislative purpose 
raised in that lawsuit also bear on Mr. Meadows. Moreover, to date, and notwithstanding a specific 
inquiry through counsel to the Biden White House, Mr. Meadows has received no direction from 
the current President that contradicts or otherwise conflicts with the direction he has received from 
former President Trump. 
Under these circumstances , it would be untenable for Mr. Meadows to decide unilalerally that he 
will waive privileges that not onJy protected his own work as a senior White House official but 
also protect current and future White House officials, who rely on executive privilege in giving 
their best, most candid advice to the President. 
Thus, if we were forced to litigate whether Mr. Meadows must comply with the Select 
Committee's subpoena, we would of necessity assert executive privilege, among other challenges 
to the ~ubpoeoa. That is especially necessary since, as mentioned above, your letter gives no 
indication of any willingness on the part of Select Committee to accommodate executive privilege 
or any of the other relevant considerations that inform Mr. Meadows' _s legal position. 
In addition, the Select Committee's apparent unwillingness to pursue accommodation would 
compel Mr. Meadows to maintain h.is position, consistent with multiple opinions from a bipartisan 
group of Attorneys General, that senior White House aides cannot be compelled to testify before 
Congress in relation to their duties. l recognize, as your letter points out, that to date, the lower 
courts have not shared that view. But to our best knowledge , the Executive Branch has never 
retreated from that position, and of course, the Supreme Court has never had the opportunity to 
address it. What remains inescapable, in any event, is that compelling senior White House officials 
to testify before Congress has a chilling effect on the ability of senior aides, current and future, to 
communicate with and on behalf of the President they serve. For that reason, Mr. Meadows would 
resist being so compelled unless and until a court orders him to do otherwise, inclucling after full 
appellate review. 
Mr. Meadows is not resisting the Select Committee's subpoena to pick a fight or to hide 
unflattering information. To the contrary, it would be in his personal interest for members of the 
Select Committee and the public at large to understand the basic facts as to what occurred. For 
example, we anticipate that, if we were to be able to reach some accommodation with the 
Committee without vitiating privilege considerations, the Select Committee would learn that 
neither Mr. Meadows, nor to this knowledge anyone on the White House staff, had advanced 
knowledge of violent acts or a plan to infiltrate the Capitol Building, and that there was no delay  89 
Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capital 
November 3, 202 I 
Page 3 
when the Administration was called to bclp restore order. Mr. Meadows is acting in good faith to 
protect the privileges and institutional prerogatives of the Executive Branch which attach to his 
tenure at the White House, as one would expect from any responsible fonner Chief of Staff. 
It is not unusual for Congress and executive officials to have competing views about Congress's 
authority and executive officials' privileges and immunities. As noted above, such disputes have 
been a common feature of this sort of episode for more than two centuries. But equally common 
has been a willingness of both sides to discuss and negotiate in good faith to dctcnninc whether an 
accommodation can be reached. In that spirit, Mr. Meadows is willing to explore with the Select 
Committee whether, outside the confines of the subpoena, an accommodation could be reached by 
which he might be able to answer, under agreed upon and appropriate circumstances, a limited set 
of questions that would further a valid legislative purpose within the scope of the Select 
Committee's inquiry. 
George J. Terwilliger ill 
cc:  90 
BENNIE G TMOMPSON. MISSl$SIPPI 
CH.-,IIIMAN 
~~;.~~f~~l:~IA 
PETEAGUll..,fJI.CAl..lfOIINIA 
STEPHA,\lfNMIJIPHV,flONOA 
J,WIEAASK!N.MARYL\NO 
EU.IN[G.LU'IIA,YI AG~!A. 
tlZCHENlY,l+'YlWIHG 
AD,,V,fK/NZJNGCII.ILLINOIS us"""•"'~,..,.,.. 
Walll,"1!1on.OC2m•5 
©n, Ifonhrth i,,11tnltt11tl1 QJongmrn 
l>clcrt Q:ummitt,c IP llnuesllgut, 111, i!lummru 611! Attack on I~• llnit,h i>lull• C!lupilol 
Mr. George Terwilliger !Tl 
McGuire Woods LLP 
Dear Mr. Terwilliger, Novembe r 5, 2021 
The Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack ("Select Committee") is in 
receipt of your letters dated Novembe r 3, 2021, regarding the subpoena for documents and 
testimony served on your client, Mark R. Meadows (the "subpoena") . In your letter regarding 
deposition testimony, you suggest that Mr. Meadows maintains a "good faith" belief that he 
cannot appear before the Select Committee to answer any questions and, instead, proposes 
unspecified accommoda tions. In your letter regarding the production of documents, you said that 
there arc "no documents to produce to the Select Committee" because you "arc not aware at this 
time of any documents that are responsive to the Select Committee's subpoena and maintained in 
Mr. Meadows's custody or control." 
Per lhe Seleel Committee's Oclober 25, 2021 letter, lhe responsive dale for Mr. Meadows 
to produce documents has been extended until November 5 and his deposition is scheduled for 
November 12. For the reasons that follow, the Select Committee cannot agree to further 
postpencments. 
First, regarding documents, you suggest that Mr. Meadows docs not have any documents 
to produce, despite indicating, via telephone, earlier this week that you have gathered documents 
and continue to review them for responsiveness. If Mr. Meadows has responsive documents but 
believes thal they are covered by an applicable privilege, please provide a privilege log that 
specifically identifies each document and each privilege that he believes applies so that the 
Select Committee can evaluate whether any additional actions are appropriate. As explained in 
the Select Committee' s October 25, 2021 letter, categorica l claims of executive privilege nrc 
improper and Mr. Meadows must assert any claim of executive privilege narrowly and 
specifically. See, e.g., In re Sealed Cnse (Espy), 121 F.3d 729 (D.C. Cir. 1997); Comm. on 
Oversight & Gov 'r Reform v. Holder, No. 12-cv-1332, 2014 WL 12662665, al •2 (D.D.C. Aug. 
20, 2014) (rejecting a "blanket" executive•privilege claim over subpoenaed documen ts). We 
also note that the Select Conunittec has received information suggesting that Mr. Meadows 
regularly communicated by text and verbally on his private cell phone when conducting 
government and campaign business. We expect that a number of those communications are  91 
Mr. George Terwilliger III 
Page 2 
likely records covered and protected by the Presidential Records Act. We ask that you identify 
for us the current location of Mr. Meadows's cell phone and whether Mr. Meadows supplied his 
texts and other relevant cell phone records lo the Archives. 
Second, with respect to Mr. Meadows's deposition, the Select Committee appreciates 
your apparent willingness to seek an accommodation and have Mr. Meadows appear to testify 
before the Select Committee. To that end, we will provide further information about the topics 
we intend to develop with Mr. Meadows during the deposition. We have already identified some 
of those topics aod a,1iculated why they do not implicate executive privilege. See our October 
25, 2021 letter. 
After reviewing that letter and those topics, you indicated in a November 2 telephone 
conference with staff that Mr. Meadows may assert executive privilege with respect to even 
those areas and disagreed the Select Committee's position that those areas would be outside of 
any recognized privilege. 
Despite this significant disagreement over the scope of executive privilege, we write 
today in a continued effort to reach an accommodation with Mr. Meadows. More specifically, we 
identify below the areas that we will seek to develop during Mr. Meadows' deposition. At 
present, the Select Committee plans to question Mr. Meadows about his knowledge, actions, and 
communications, including· communications involving Mr. Trump and others, with respect to the 
following: 
(1) Messaging to or from the White House, Trump reelection campaign, party officials, 
and others about purported fraud, irregularities, or malfeasance in the November 2020 
election. This includes, but is not limited to, Mr. Trump's and others frequent use of 
the "Stop the Steal'' slogan, even after lawsuits, investigations, public reporting, 
discussions-with agency heads, and internally created documents revealed that there 
had not been widespread election fraud. 
(2) White House officials' understanding of purported election-related fraud, 
irregularitiesJ or malfeasance in the November 2020 election. 
(3) Efforts to pressure federal agencies, including the Department of Justice, to take 
actions to challenge the results of the presidential election, advance allegations of 
voter fraud, interfere with Congress's count of the Electoral College vote, or 
otherwise overturn President Biden's certified victory. This includes, but is not 
limited to, Mr. Trump's and others' efforts to use the Department of Justice to 
investigate alleged election-related conduct, file lawsuits, propose that state 
legislatures take election-related actions, or replace senior leadership. It also includes 
similar efforts at other agencies such as the Department of Homeland Security, the 
Department of Defense, and, among others, the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure 
Security Agency.  92 
Mr. George Terwilliger III 
Page 3 
(4) Efforts to pressure state and local officials and entities, including state attorneys 
general, state legislators, and state legislatures, to take actions to challenge the results 
of the presidential election, advance unsubstantiated allegations of voter fraud, 
interfere with Congress's count of the Electoral College vote, de-certify state election 
results, appoint alternate slates of electors, or otherwise overturn President Biden's 
certified victory. This includes, but is not limited to, an Oval Office meeting with 
legislators from Michigan, as well as a January 2, 2021 call with, among others, state 
officials, members of Congress, Mr. Trump, and Mr. Meadows. 
(5) Theories and strategies regarding Congress and the Vice President's (as President of 
the Senate) roles and responsibilities when counting the Electoral College vote. This 
includes, but is not limited to, the theories and/or understandings of John Eastman, 
Mark Martin, former Vice President Pence, and othefS. 
(6) Efforts to pressure fonner Vice President Pence, members of his staff, and members 
of Congress to delay or prevent certification of the Electoral Col \cge vote. This 
includes, but is not limited to, meetings between, or including, the former Vice 
President, Mr. Tmmp, aides, John Eashnan, members of Congress, and others. 
(7) Campaign-related activities, including efforts to count, not count, or audit votes, as 
well as discussions about election-related matters with state and local officials. This 
includes, but is not limited to, Mr. Meadows' travel to Ge◊rgia to observe vote 
counting, as well as his or Mr. Trump's communications with officials and employees 
in the Georgia Secretary of State's Office. This also includes similar activities related 
to state and local officials in Michigan, Wisconsin, Nevada, Arizona, and 
Pennsylvania. 
(8) Meetings or other communications involving people who did not work for the United 
States government. This includes, but is not limited to, an Oval Office meeting on 
December 18, at which Mr. Trump, Michael Flynn, Patrick Byrne, and others 
discussed campaign-related steps that Mr. Trump purportedly could take to change 
the outcome of the November 2020 election and remain in office for a second term, 
such as seizing voting machines, litigitting , and appointing a special counsel. Jt also 
includes communications with organizers Of the January 6 rally like Amy Kremer of 
Women for America First. 
(9) Communications and meetings with members of Congress about the November 2020 
election, purpoticd election fraud, actual or proposed election-relat ed litigation , and 
election-related rallies and/or protests. This includes, but is not limited to, a 
December 21, 2021 meeting involving Mr. Trump, members of his legal team, and 
members of the House and Senate, during which attendees discussed objecting to the 
November 2020 election's certified electoral college votes as part of an apparent fight 
"against mounting evidence of voter fraud."  93 
Mr. George Terwilliger III 
Page4 
(10) Efforts by federal officials, including White House staff, Mr. Trump, the Trump 
reelection campaign, and members of Congress to plan or organize rallies and/or 
protests in Washington, D.C. related to the election, including, but not Limited to, the 
January 6 rally on the Ellipse. · 
(11) Advance knowledge of, and any preparations for, the possibility of violence 
during election-related rallies and/or protests in Washington, D.C. 
(12) Events in the days leading up to, and including, January 6. This includes, but is 
not limited to, campaign-related planning and activi_ties at the Willard Hotel, planning 
and preparation for Mr. Trump's speech at the Ellipse, Mr. Trump and other White 
House officials' actions during and after the attack on the U.S. Capitol, and contact 
with members of Congress , law enforcement, the Department of Defense, and other 
federal agencies to address or respond to the attack. 
(13) The possibility of invoking martial law, the Insurrection Act, or the 25th 
Amendment based on election~related issues or the events in the days leading up to. 
and including, January 6. 
(14) The preservation or destruction of any infonnation relating to the facts, 
circumstances , and causes relating to the attack of January 6th, including any such 
information that may have been stored, generated, or destroyed on personal electronic 
devices. 
(15) Documents and information, including the location of such documents and 
information, that are responsive to the Select Committee's subpoena. This includes, 
but is not limited to, information stored on electronic devices that Mr. Meadows uses 
and has used. 
(16) Topics about which Mr. Meadows has already spoken publicly. This includes, but 
is not limited to, Mr. Meadows's February 11, 2021, appearance on the Ingraham 
Angle show to discuss the January 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol, Mr. Trump's 
reactions to the attack, and the National Guard. 
Again, this list is non-exclusive and may be supplemented as our investigation continues, 
hut we do not expect to seek information from Mr. Meadows unrelated to the 2020 election and 
what led to and occurred on January 6. We also continue to interview additional witnesses who 
have personal knowledge of these issues and Mr. Meadows's involvement. As our investigation 
continues, we may develop additional information about the above-described areas or identify 
additional subjects about which we will seek infonnation from your client, We will discuss those 
issues with you on an ongoing basis provided we are continuing to negotiate about these issues 
and Mr. Meadows's potential privilege assertions.  94 
Mr. George Terwilliger 111 
Page 5 
We believe that these topics either do not implicate any cognizable claim of executive 
privilege or raise issues for which the Select Committee's need for the information is sufficiently 
compelling _that it overcomes any such claim. To that end, please provide your input on the 
topics that the Select Committee has reiterated. by way of this letter no later than Monday, 
November 8. Ifthere are areas listed above that you agree implicate no executive or other 
privilege, please identify those areas, Conversely, please articulate which privilege you believe 
applies to each area and how it is implicated. Our hope is that this process will sharpen our 
differences on privilege issues and allow us to develop unobjectionable areas promptly. 
Mr. Meadows's deposition scheduled for November 12 can proceed on at least the 
agreed-upon topics, and we can move one step closer tow3rds the resolution of outstanding 
issues. 
Finally, it is worth emphasizing an additional point that is also addressed in the pending 
litigation involving the National Archives. For purposes of executive privilege, Mr. Meadows 
apparently sees no significant difference between himself and Mr. Trump as former executive 
branch officials, and President Biden and his chief of staff as current executive branch officials. 
That distinction, however, is meaningful because it is the incumbent President that is responsible 
for guarding executive privilege, not former officials. D.ellums v. Powell, 561 F.2d 242,247 
(D.C. Cir. 1977); see also Nixon v. GSA, 433 U.S. 425, 449 (1977) (even the one residual· 
privilege that a fonner president might assert, the communications privilege, exists "for the 
benefit of the Republic," rather than for the· former "President as an iridividual"). With respect to 
the Select Committee's work, the incumbent President has actually expressly declined to assert 
executive privilege on a number of subjects on which the Select Co_mmittee has sought testimOny 
or documents. See Trump v. Thompson, Case No. 1:21-cv~2769 (TSC), Doc. 21 (brief for the 
NARA defendants); see also Doc. 21-1 (Declaration ofB. John Laster). 
The accommodations process regarding potential claims of executive privilege is a 
process engaged in between the Executive Branch and the Legislative Branch. See Trump v. 
Mazars USA LLP, 140 S. Ct. 2019, 2030-31 (2020). Mr. Meadows represents neither. 
Nevertheless, we have in good faith considered your concerns and have proposed a course of 
action that reflects both that considerati(?n and the Select Committee's urgent need for 
information.  95 
Mr. George Terwilliger III 
Page 6 
Our hope is that this description of topics allows us to narrow the list of potentially 
disputed issues and move forward witb Mr. Meadows' deposition. You have asked for 
negotiation, and we have responded in good faith. As was true before, however, the Select 
Committee will view Mr. Meadows's failure to respond to the subpoena as willful non­
compliance. Such willful non-comp liance with the subpoena would force the Select Committee 
to consider invoking the contempt of Congress procedures in 2 U.S.C. §§ 192, 194-which could 
result in a referral from the House to the Department of Justice for criminal charges-as well as 
the possibility of having a civil action to enforce the subpoena brought against Mr. Meadows in 
his personal capacity. 
Sincerely, 
Bennie G. Thompson 
Chairman  96 
tt1
·'~111:S111 McGUIREWCDDS 
November 8, 2021 
VIA EMAJL 
Honorable Bennie G. Thompson , Chairman 
Honorable Liz Cheney, Vice Chair 
Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Altack on the United Slates Capitol 
U.S. House of Re resentatives 
Re: Subpoenas Served on Honorable Mark R. Meadows 
Dear Chair Thompson and Vice Chair Cheney: · 
I write in response to Chninnan Thompson's letter of Friday, November 5, 2021. Thank you for 
your willingness to discuss the important issues raised by the Select Committee's subpoena. You 
asked that l respond by today, Monday, No\/cmbcr 8, 2021, and so Jam writing to so respond and 
to further seek some reasonable accommodation of the Select Committee's demands. 
Please allow me to reiterate a fundamcotal point: Mr. Meadows position·rcgarding testimony to 
the Select Committee is driven by his intent to maintain privileges that obviously attach to most 
subject matters arising from his tenure as White I-louse Chief of Staff. Put simply. whelher or not 
we agree that he lacks standing to assert privilege, it is obvious that he has no authority to 
unilaterally waive privilege. Moreover , as a responsible former Chief of Staff, he is abiding by 
the unifonn, bi-:-partisan position of the Department of Justice that senior~most White House Sta IT 
canno~ be compelle d to provide congressional testimony. Unless the Depattment changes its 
position, and a court of competent authority directs him, after full appellate review, to do 
otherwise, that is the position we must maintain. 
~l)ite that position, we have, now on several occasions, sought to find, outside the context of 
compulsfon , accommodation \vith the Select CommiUcc that would allow it to obtain some 
information from Mr: Meadows legitimately within the purview of a proper legislative purpose. 
Atlanla I Austin I 11.aklmoni I Charlocto I 01ukr.111wtllc I Chicago l Da!lu I H<Kioon I Jacbonvll lc I Lotufun I Los Anl!cta • Conllrf City 
Los Argeles -Downk>wn I New Vosk I Norfolk I i'lttsburgh I b!&igh I Rldwr.oorl I ~n Fr~nclsco I Tyron1 I Wuhlngton, D.C.  97 
Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
November 8, 202 l 
Page 2 
We have gone so far as to proffer some information about a core aspect of apparent interest to the 
Select Committee. Unfortunately, our efforts have been met, including in your letter of November 
5, with ever-broade ning topical demands from the Select Committee (as detailed below), rather 
than an attempt to narrow our differences by focusing on a more pru.iiculari zed band of inquiry. 
Nonetheless, we would propose yet again a means to accommodation outside the scope of 
subpoena that does not require Congress or Mr. Meadows to waive any legal rights. To that end, 
we would propose that the Select Committee propound written interrogatories to Mr. Meadows on 
any ~opics about which the Select Committee might wish to inquire. If the Select Committee is 
willing to do so, we are willing to respond to them as quickly as is feasible. That would allow Mr. 
Meadows to provide what information he can and/or to articulate clear assertions of privilege 
where applicable to specific questions. We believe doing so, at least initially, would present an 
orderly approach of far greater promise than would attempting to do so in a live setting. 
With respect to the Select Committee's request for documents , please allow me to clarify as I 
believe your letter may misapprehend what we have related to your staff. While serving as White 
House Chief of Staff, Mr. Meadows conducted business on a computer and cell phone provided 
by the Federal Governme nt. We believe that those devices contain the documents that are 
responsive to the Select Committee's subpoena. But those devices, and the documents on them, 
are no longer in Mr. Meadows's custody and control. He returned those devices to the Federal 
Government on January 20, 2021, and we believe them to be in the custody and control of the 
Archivist. We understand that the Select Committee is already in the process of seeking those and 
other docwnents from the National Archives, but Mr. Meadows does not have any fonnal role in 
that process. 
Separately, to ensure that nothing has been missed, Mr. Meadows has provided us with access to 
electronic images from his personal accounts and devices. We do not expect those personal 
accounts and devices to contain much, if any, responsive material, but it is that review which is 
ongoing. My letter of November 3, 2021 was to indicate that we would agree to produce any 
responsive materials if we should identify any, without waiving attorney-client or any other 
applicable privilege. Ifwe identify responsive materials that we conclude must be withheld based 
on an assertion of privilege, we will most certainly provide a privilege l og as you request. 
While we appreciate the Select Committee's expressed openness to an accommodation, we are 
concerned, as referenced above, that your latest letter expaads, ratl1er than narrows the scope of 
topics that any proposed accorrimodation might address. On October 12, I received from counsel 
for the Select Committee a list of topics that I was told reflected the Select Committee's view of 
what lay outside the scope of executive privilege. We had a different view about the applicability 
of executive privilege to those categories, but we appreciated the effort to reach common ground. 
In your latest letter of Novembe r 5, however, there is listed an expanded set of categories that 
plainly implicate executive privilege even under a narrow interpretation of it. For instance, you 
ask Mr. Meadows to testify about "White House officials' understanding of purported 
election-related fraud, irregularities, or malfeasance in the November 2020 election." As you  98 
Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
November 8, 2021 
Page3 
know, the Executive Branch is responsible for enforcing federal election laws, and it is natural for 
federal officials to discuss and deliberate on those issues. We do not see how Mr. Meadows could 
testify about that topic without implicating executive privilege. You also ask Mr. Meadows to 
testify about President Trump's "and others' efforts to use the Department of Justice to investigate 
alleged election-related conduct, file lawsuits, propose that state legislah1res take election-related 
actions, or replace senior leadership." As you know, the President is Chief Executive and oversees 
the Department of Justice, as well as other federal agencies. We do not see how Mr. Meadows 
could testify about that topic without implicating executive privilege. Ifwe are misunderstanding 
the Select Committee's position, and there is some narrower subset of these categories that the 
Select Committee genuinely believes to be outside executive privilege, we would welcome the 
clarification. 
In addition to your expanded list of topics, you also maintain that "this list is non-exclusive and 
may be supplemented." You also state that the Select Committee "continue[s) to interview 
additional witnesses who have personal knowledge of these issues and Mr. Meadows 's 
involvement." [n addition to raising concerns about the Select Committee moving away from a 
reasonable accommodation, these statements also raise questions about why the Sele'ct Committee 
feels the need to subpoena the former White House Chief of Staff at all and, in particular , why the 
Select Committee is insisting on a November 12 date for such testimony. The courts have made 
clear that an important factor in assessing whether Congress can compel production of information 
about the President and his senior advisors is whether Congress has alternative means of gettiilg 
the same information. See Nixon v. Adm'r of Gen. Servs., 433 U.S. 425,482 (1977); Trump v. 
Mazars USA, LLP, 140 S. Ct. 2019, 2025 (2020). If the Select Committee is already gathering 
documents and testimony about Mr. Meadows and his conduct during the relevant period, as your 
letter suggests, it is not clear why the Select Committee needs to gather that information again 
from him-in a posture that would threaten long-term effects for executive privilege. 
The Executive Branch has prudently and consistently maintained in Administrations under both 
parties that Congress does not have the authority to compel testimony from the President's most 
senior advisors without the need to parse underlying questions of executive privilege. As the 
Supreme Court has noted, it can be very difficult to parse out the official and non-official duties 
of the President, who must serve as a one-man branch of government. See Trump v. Mazars USA, 
LLP, 140 S, Ct. 2019, 2024 (2020). It is all the more difficult to conduct that parsing during live 
testimony. Therefore , we believe that the alternate approach we respectfully suggest would 
provide the best path forward. We hope the Committee will give careful consideration to our 
suggestion for the use of voluntary interrogatory questions and answers. 
Again, I want to thank you and the Select Committee for your willingness to engage on these 
important topics. We recognize that the Select Committee and Mr. Meadows have very different 
views about the scope of Congress ' authority and the protections afforded to Mr. Meadows.  99 
Select Committe e to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
November 8, 2021 
Page 4 
You also note in your letter that, if we do not reach an accommodation , you intend to pursue a 
contempt citation against Mr. Meadows. We do not believe that would be warranted under the 
circumstances, but we understand that the Select Committee will do what it sees most fit. We 
respectfully request, however, that, if the Select Committee does decide to pursue a contempt 
citation against Mr. Meadows, in fairness to him thal our muhtal correspondence would be entered 
into the official record at that time. 
George J. Terwilliger Ill 
cc:  100 
BEHNJEO.~~ ,.jMISSISSlPPI 
lOC lOFC0'1tk CAUFOON!A 
AOAM o. SCHlrr, CAU(DnNIA 
PCTE'-CUUR.CAI.IFOIINllt. 
SIEl"tW,ll£N .MLll11'1tV.flOfllOA 
=t~t~:iA':Wii~~fl 
=-=':~;'tk US H,o11..,olftcp<CKfflll,-. 
W•$11,"ll!On,0C7v..l~ 
®n, :!iunbrrb l;tututttnt~ Q!angrrns 
!;elect Q!ummitttt ta Jlnuesttgnte t~, ;January 61~ _t.ttnrk an t~• llnlttb !;tntts <!inpital 
November 9, 2021 
Mr. George Terwilliger 1II 
McGuire Woods LLP 
Dear Mr. Terwilliger: 
The Select Committee to Investigate the January 61h Attack (''Select Committee") is in 
receipt of your letter dated Novembe r 8, 2021. 
As explained in the Select Committee's letter dated November 5, 2021, we have been, and 
remain, interested in reaching an accommodation with Mr. Meadows that allows the Select 
Committee to fulfill its purpose of understanding the complete picrurc of what led to and occurred 
on January 61h, making recommen dations for changes to the law that will protect our democracy, 
and help ensure that nothing like January 6th ever happens again. To that end, we have endeavored 
to identify discrete areas of inquiry that we seek to develop with Mr. Meadows . 
As you are aware, the Select Committee has identified sixteen subject matters for inquiry 
and asked that you explain your position as to whether any of those areas would trigger any claims 
of executive privilege. In your November 8 letter, you did not respond with any specificity about 
those areas, which we assume means that you believe all potentially implicate executive privilege. 
Without further input on those areas, it appears that the accommodation process has reached its 
nahm1.l conclusion. 
As a result, the Select Committee must insist that Mr. Meadows appear for a deposition on 
November12,202J,asrc uircdb the sub oena.Thede ositionwillbc inat 10:00a.m. in-
Although you have 
stated a preference to proceed by written interrogatories, there is simply no substitute for live, in­
person testimony and the Select Committee respectfully declines your suggestion to proceed 
otherwise. At Friday's deposition, we will inquire about the areas identified in the November 5 
letter. We continue to believe they do not implicate any privilege, though we understand that Mr. 
Meadows may asse1i executive privilege as to certain questions. Om intention is to develop the 
areas that are outside of any privilege claim, and to give you and Mr. Meadows the opportunity lo 
state privilege objections to specific questions on the record. 
As we discussed by telephone today, our investigation has identified evidence regarding 
your client's use of personal cellular telephones and email accounts. Mr. Meadows's use of such 
personal devices and accounts will be a subject or inquiry at Friday's deposition. More specifically,  101 
Mr. George TcrwiUigcr Ill 
Page2 
we will seek to develop the following information, none of which implicates any executive or other 
privilege: 
(1) Between the dates November 3, 2020, and January 20,202 l, did Mr. Meadows use any 
electronic application wilh encryption technology to communicate any government­
related mcs~mges? If so, which applications did Mr. Meadows use? Does Mr. Meado'ws 
still hnvc access to these messages? Were these messages searched in response to the 
Select Committee's subpoena? 
(2) Between the dates November 3, 2020, and January 20, 2021, did Mr. Meadows use any 
personal communications devices, including but not limited to cell phones a')signed the 
numbei,■■■■■ ,and 
(3) lf Mr, Meadows had such personal communications devices, did he use them for any 
government-related communications'? 
(4) JfMr. Meadows had such personal communicat ions devices, does he still have those 
devices and nny text messages storod therein? 
(5) If so, have those devices been searched for records responsive to the Select 
Committee's subpoena to Mr. Meadows? 
(6) 1f Mr. Meadows no longer bas such pctsonal communications devices or no longer hns 
the text messages from tho date range mentioned above,' what di4 he do with those 
devices and message$? Did he tum them over to the National Archives? lfhe no longer 
has possession of them, does he have knowledge regarding their dispo~ilion? 
(7) During t'hc date ranges mentioned above, did Mr. Meadows utilize a non-govern ment 
email account, such as a Gmail account? If so, did Mr. Meadows use that account for 
any governme nt-related communications? Does Mr. Meadows still hove access to the 
account? Has any such account been searched for records responsive to the Select 
Committee's subpoena to Mr. Meadows? 
(8) If Mr, Meadows had n non.government email account during the dates mentioned 
above, b~t no longer has ilccess to that account or no longer has emails from the date 
range mentioned above, what happened lo that account or those emails? Did be provide 
all governr.nent•related emails lo the Nalional Archives? 
As we discu!;Sed, it would be helpful to have information about these issues before Friday's 
deposition. 
Please confirm receipt of this Jetter and Mr. Meadows' iolenl lo appear for his deposition 
on Friday. Our staff is available to talk with you about logistical information such as building 
access. The Select Committee will view Mr. Meadows's failure to appear for the deposition and 
respond to the subp·oena as wHlful non-compliance. Such willful non•comp 1iance with the 
subpoena would force the Select Committee to consider invoking the contempt of Congress 
procedures in 2 U.S.C. §§ 192, 194-which could result in a referral from the House to the  102 
Mr. George Terwilliger II1 
Page 3 
Department of Justice for criminal charges-as well as the possibility of having a civil action to 
enforce the subpoena brought against Mr. Meadows in his personal capacity. Upon completion of 
Friday's deposition , we will have a record on which to base decisions about possible enforcement 
action. 
Sincerely, 
Bennie G. Thompson 
Chairman  103 
McCulr<!Woods UP 
"'°J''r""';'Z""' McGUIREWCDDS 
Novem~er 10, 2021 
VIAEMAIL 
Honornble Bennie 0. Thompson, Chairman 
Honorable Liz Cheney, Vice Chair _ 
Select Committee to Investigate !he January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
U.S. House of Re resentarives · 
Re· Subpoenas Served on Honorable Mark R-Meo.dows 
Dear Chair TI1om.pson and Vice Chair Cheney: 
I write to acknowledge receipt of your letter of yesterday, November 9, 2021, in whicb you 
reject yet again a proposal fqr accommodation and ignor.c our suggestion · to seek an 
-accommodation outside the compulsion of a committee subpoena. Rather, the Select Committee 
insists that Mr. Meadows appear pursuant to a subpoena for a deposition this Friday, November 
12, 2021, pertaining-without limitation in light of the privilege concerns we have raised-to 
sixteen wide.ranging subject mutters as to which he would be que!i.'tioned. You havo made this 
demand notwithstanding the n\lmcrou s outstanding issues thnt we have been discussing. Not least 
among these, we have asserted that Mr. Mead.ows feels duty bow1cl to respect th.e bi•parlisan 
po!Sitlons of multiple presidential adm.inistr.:uions , as expressed by the Depanment ·of Justice, that 
senior aides to tb.C president cannot be compelled to provide congressional testimony. Mr. 
Meadows cannot agree to appear al 10 Ml Friday. · 
The Select Committee has already threatened to enforce its subpoena against Mr. Meadows 
ifhe does not appear for live testimony, but I urge you to reconsider that position_. Jt would be an 
extraordinary step for the Select Committee to seek to force Mr. Meadows to testify under these 
circumstanc es: The Select Committee's subpoena directly seeks information about Mr. 
Meadows's tenure as White House Ch.ief of Staff, including information that he knows only from 
discussions with then•Pre$i.dcn t Trump in the course of official duties. Pre.'jident Trump bas 
instrnctc::4 him to maintain and assert privilege .11nd t.o.stinxmial immunity to the full extenL of the 
law, and Mr. Meadows has not received any contrary instruction from the current 
Administration. There is active Litigation in the federal cpwts over reJated. privilege issues that 
Ml-~f'ILI I Auitlf'I I Ba~moro I Chailotlli I Ctwtoll•vlll, I Chl~•so / D;all;JS I Huuitun I µcluo,wlllo [ ~dOll I Im A~les -Century City 
Loi hny!les -1.Jowntown I New Yodt I Norfolk I Pltuburzh I Ral,lgh I Rldnnond I San FraoclM:o I Tysons I Wuhlnglm, D.C.  104 
Select Commiuee to Investigate the January 6th Auad:. on the United Statt:s Capitol 
November I 0, 2021 
Page 2 
could bear on Mr. Meadows·s testimony. And as expressed in your letteroflast Friday, November 
5, 2021, the Select Committee still has not detcnnined the full scope of infonnalion that ii intends 
to seek from Mr. Meadows under its broad subpoena. 
We cilso regret that we have not been able to rcuch un accommodat ion with the Select 
Commi11cc outside the contours of tl11.: subpocm.1, as Congn..:ss has ulkn been able 10 do with senior 
Executive officials over the past two centuries. Curiously, your letter insists that the 
accommoda tion process has stalled because the Select Committee docs not have written views 
from Mr. Meadows on which subjects of the Select Commiucc's inquiry would be subject to legal 
privileges . including executive privilege. And yet that is precisely what we proposed to provide 
in response to written interrogatories from the Select Committee. We have never suggested that. 
by agreeing to propound interrogatories as a next step in the accommoda tion process, 1hc Select 
Committee would forfeit the ubility to seek live testimony. Nor would Mr. Meadows forfeit his 
ability lo objccl to this request. That is the nature of an accommo dation. It is therefore unfortunate 
that the Select Comminee has rushed to compel live testimony now. 
Mr. Meadows has proudly served in the House of Representatives. He fully appreciates 
Congress's role in our cons1in11ional system. But in these circumstances, that appreciation for our 
constitutional system and the separation of powers dictates that he cannot appear on Friday to 
testify about his tenure as While House Chief of Staff. Mr. Meadows docs not resist 1hc Select 
Committee's subpoena ou1 of self-interest. He instead feels duly-bound as former White House 
Chief of Staff to protect the prcrog:uives of that office and of Executive Branch in which he 
served. Mr. Meadow s cannot, in good conscience: undermine the on-ice and all who will hold it 
through a unilateral waiver of privilege and testimonial immunity. 
I hope you will accept my sincere thanks for the opportunity 10 have cng<1gcJ in this 
dialogue with you and the Select Committee concerning Mr. Meadows ·s compelled appearance 
before it. I regret that this frank exchange of views has not apparently led to an agreed upon 
resolution. As stated above. we do hope that the Select Committee will reconsider its apparent 
decision to enforce its subpoena against Mr. Meadow s. But if not. we reiterate our request for the 
Select Committee to enter our muht:11 correspondence. including this letter, into the official record 
of any associated proceedings. 
George J. Terwilliger Ill 
cc:  105 
IENNIEQ.r:~,.jMISSISS lffl 
zoeiorGl'EN.CAUl'OIWIA 
AOAMII.SCHll'fCAl.11-0ANIA 
PllTAGUII..AA .CAUFOfl NIA 
SnPHANIE N. "'UAPHY. RORIOA 
~~ ~tt~~~r:: 
UZCHEN,fY. wYOl.flNC 
ADAM KINZINGER. IIJJNOIS ®nt :!lunbrtb Srutntm1tl1 <!iongrus U.S Hou .. DI FlaJ>r-•ouuvM 
Wuh"V4on.0Cl0'.il5 
..,,.. .. ...«lhh-goy 
U(UJ)i:,...1800 
&tltct <!lomm!tttt to ]nu,stigutt 14, i!Januaru 611! Attack un I~• Jlnittb &!alts C!lapitol 
Mr. George Terwilliger II[ 
McGuire Woods LLP 
Dear Mr. Terwilliger: November It, 2021 
The Select Committee to Investigate the January 61h Attack ("Select Committee") is in 
receipt of your letter dated November IO, 2021, in which you state that Mr. Meadows feels "duty 
bound" to disregard the Select Committee's subpoena requiring him to produce documents and 
appear for testimony. Mr. Mcadows's conclusion about his duty, however, relics on a 
misunderstanding of his legal obligations under the subpoena. The law requires that Mr. Meadows 
comply with the subpoena absent an applicable immunity or valid assertion of a Constitutionall y 
based privilege. The attached letter from the White House Counsel's Office, dated today, 
eviscerates any plausible claim of testimonial immunity or executive privilege, and compels 
compliance with the Select Committee's subpoena. 
In your letters and telephone conversation s with the Select Committee since October 7, 
2021, you have indicated that Mr. Meadows "is immune from compelled congressional testimony 
on matters related to his official responsibilities." That position is based on Department of Justice 
Office of Legal Counsel ("OLC") opinions in which OLC has advised past presidents to claim that 
senior advisors cannot be required to provide testimony to Congress about official actions. These 
opinions, however, do not justify Mr. Meadows's refusal to provide the Select Committee 
information about one of the most significant events in our Nation's history. As we previously 
conveyed, every federal coun that has considered the issue of absolute immunity has rejected it, 
even after OLC last opined on the matter. See, e.g., Comm. 011 the Judiciwy v. Miers, 558 F. Supp. 
2d 53, I 06 (D.D.C. 2008) (rejecting former White House counsel's assertion of absolute immunity 
from compelled congressiona l process); Comm. 011 J11dicia,y v. McGa/111, 415 F. Supp. Jd 148 
(D.D.C. 2019) ("To make the point as plain as possible, it is clear to this Court ... that, with respect 
to senior•level presidential aides, absolule immunity from compelled congressional process simply 
does not exist."). 
Your letters also broadly suggest that Mr. Meadows's testimony is covered by claims of 
executive privilege. At the same time, you have failed to respond with specificity about any of the 
areas of inquiry the Select Committee has identified that do not implicate any privilege at all. For 
example, my most recent letter to you listed eight questions on which the Select Committee seeks 
Mr. Meadows's testimony related to his use of personal cellular devices and email accounts. Your  106 
Mr. George Terwilljger Ill 
Page 2 
IBtter in response did not address those issues and, instead, made general and unspecified blanket 
assertions of immunity and executive privilege. But, as you know and, as explained in my letter 
dated October 25, categorical claims of executjve privilege run afoul of caselaw requiring that any 
claim of executive privilege be asserted narrowly and specifically. See, e.g., In re Sealed Case 
(Espy), 121 F.3d 729, 752 (D.C. Cir. 1997) ("the presidential communications privilege should be 
constrned as narrowly ... "); Comm. on Oversight & Gov't Reform v. Holder, 2014 WL 12662665, 
at *2 (rejecting a "blanket" executive-privilege claim over subpoenaed documents). We find it 
hard to consider your offer to answer questions in writing as genuine when you failed to respond 
to the questions we explicitly asked. Please resp(?nd to those questions no later than tomorrow. 
Jn addition, Mr. Meadows has not produced even a single document in response to the 
Select Committee's subpoena. Although you previously indicated that your firm was searching 
records that Mr. Meadows provided to you, more than enough time has passed for you to complete 
your review. Please immediately inform the Select Committee whether Mr. Meadows has any 
records responsive to the subpoena. Your search for responsive records should include {but not be 
limited to) any text messages, emails, or application-based messages associated with the cellular 
phone numbers and private email address the Select Committee has identified, If Mr. Meadows 
has records that you believe are protected by some fonn of privilege, you must provide the Select 
Committee a log describing each such recor d and the basis for the privilege asserted. 
Further, the Select Committee understands that today, November 11, 2021, you received 
the attached letter from the White House Counsel's Office addressing your previously stated 
concern that "Mr. Meadows bas not received any contrary instruction from the current 
Administration." The White House Counsel's letter clearly explains the current President's 
position: ·"[t]he President believes that the constitutional protections of executive privilege should 
not be used to shield information reflecting an effort to subvert the Constitution itself, and indeed 
believes that such an assertion in this. circumstance would be at odds with the principles that 
underlie the privilege." For that reason, and others, your client has now been advised that (i) "an 
assertion of privilege is not justified with respect to testimony and documents" relevant to the 
Select Committee's investigation, and (ii) the President will not be asserting any claims of 
executive privilege or testimonial immunHy regarding subjects about which the Select Committee 
seeks documents and testimony from Mr. Meadows.1 
Simply put, there is no valid legal basis for Mr. Meadows's continued resistance to the 
Select Committee's subpoena. As such, the Select Committee expects Mr. Meadows to produce 
1 Your letter slates that Mr. Meadows cannot "in good conscience" give testimony out of an "appreciatio n for our 
constitutiona l system and the separatio n of powers" because doing so would "undermine the office and all who hold 
it." You also acknowledge, however, that Congress has successfully obtained information from "senior Executive 
officials over the past two centuries," as you ·must, because there is a long history of senior aides providing 
testimony to Congress without upending our constitutional system. See, e.g., Trump v. Thompson, No. 21AcvA2769 at 
l9A20 (D.D.C. Nov. 9, 2021) (describing congress ional testimony of White House staff during the Nixon and 
Reaganad ministrati9ns, as well as President George W. Bush's interview with the 9/11 Commissio n); see also 
Preside11tial Advisers' Testimony Before Congressional Committees: An Ovel'view, CRS RBPORT FOR CONGRBSS 
(April 10, 2007) (providing numerous examples of presidential aides testifying befor~ Congress including, Lloyd 
Cutler (Counsel to the Presiden t), Samuel Berger (Assistant to the President), Harold Ickes (Assistant to the 
President and Deputy Chief of Stafl)).  107 
Mr. George Terwilliger HI 
Page 3 
all responsive documents and appear for deposition testimony tomorrow , November 12, 2021, at 
I 0:00 a.m. If there are specific questions during that deposition that you believe raise legitimate 
privilege issues, Mr. Meadows should state them at that time on the record for the Select 
Committee's considerat ion and possible judicial review. 
The Select Committee will view Mr. Meadows's failure to appear at the deposition, and to 
produce responsive documents or a privilege log indicating the specific basis for withholding any 
documents you believe are protected by privilege, as willful non-compliance. Such willful non­
compliance with the subpoena would force the Select Committee to consider invoking the 
contempt ofCongreSs procedures in 2 U.S.C. §§ 192, 194-which could result in a referral from 
the House of Representatives to the Department of Justice for criminal charges-as well as the 
possibility of having a civil action to enforce the subpoena brought against Mr. Meadows in his 
personal capacity. 
Sincerely , 
Bennie G. Thompson 
Chairman  108 
34 
• • • •. I will mark as exhibit 3 and enter into the record a letter dated November 
11th, 2021, from the White House Counsel's Office to Mr. George Terwilliger as 
counsel for Mr.Meadows.  109 
35 
Exhibit 3 -Letter from White House Counsel to 
Counsel for Mr. Meadows, Nov. 11, 2021  110 
George J. Terwilliger III 
McGuire Woods LLP 
Dear Mr. Terwilliger: I~ □ a a aaoo IM.fil! a a a aaaa 
THE WHITE HOUSE 
November 11, 2021 
I write in response to your letter of October 11, 2021, regarding a subpoena issued by the 
House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol (the 
"Select Committee") to your client, Mark R. Meadows. 
In an October 8, 2021 lener to the Archivist of the United States regarding the Select 
Committee 's request for document s relevant to its investigation, the Counsel to the President 
wrote: 
[T]he insun-ectiou that took place on January 6, and the extraordinary events 
surrom1ding it, must be subject to a full accounting to ensure nothing similar ever 
happens again. Congress has a compelling need in service of its legislative 
functions to understand the circumstances that led to ... the most serious attack 
on the operations of the Federal Government since the Civil War.1 
President Biden recognizes the impo11ance of candid advice in the discharge of the 
President's constitutional responsibilitie s and believes that, in appropriate cases, executive 
privilege should be asserted to protect fonner senior White House staff from having to testify 
about conversations concernin g the President's exercise of the duties of his office. But in 
recognition of these llllique and extraordinruy circumstances , where Congress is investigating an 
effort to obstmct the lawful transfer of power under our Constitution , President Biden has 
already determined that an assertion of executive privilege is not in the public interest, and is 
therefore not justified, with respect to particular subjects within the purview of the Select 
Committee. These subjects include: events within the White House on or about January 6, 2021; 
attempts to use the Department of Justice to advance a false narrative that the 2020 election was 
tainted by widespread fraud; and other effo11s to alter election results or obstmct the transfer of 
power. The President believes that the constitutional protection s of executive privilege should 
not be used to shield informati on reflecting an effort to subve11 the Constih.Ition itself, and indeed 
believes that such an assertion in this circumstance would be at odds with the principle s that 
underlie the privilege. 
1 See Letter to David S. Ferriero, Archivist of the United States. from Dana A. Remus. Counsel to the 
President (Oct. 8, 2021).  111 
Consistent with President Biden's determination that an assertion of privilege is not 
justified with respect to testimony and documents relating to these particular subjects, he has 
determined that he will not assert executive privilege with respect to your client's deposition 
testimony on these subjects, or any documents your client may possess that bear on them. For 
the same reasons underlying his decisions on executive privilege, President Biden has 
determined that he will not assert immunity to preclude your client from testifying before the 
Select Committee . 
Please contact me if you have any questions about the matters described herein. 
Sincerely, ~ 
Jonathan C. Su 
Deputy Counsel to the President 
cc: 
Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol  112 
36 
••••.I will mark as exhibit 4 and enter into the record an email dated Novem­
ber 9th, 2021, and corresponding attachment,; from••••, chief investigative coun­
sel to the select committee, to George Terwilliger, with subject line, "Deposition 
Rules.~ The attachments consist of, one, a document called "Document Produciion 
g~~;!~:iin~ldR~~~; du~~:~s~1rr~;~cra~~~; ~~~~s~~2t~t~ta :hf!h 0fs t~cc~;yu~r 
section 3(b) of House Resolution 8 dated January 4th, 2021  113 
37 
Exhibit 4 -Select Committee Staff Email to 
Counsel for Mr. Meadows, Nov. 9, 2021  114 
From: 
Sent: 
To: 
Cc: 
Subject: 
Attachments: 
George, Tuesday, November 9, 2021 7:39 PM 
Terwilliger, Geoze J. Ill 
Deposition Rules 
Document Production lnstructions.pdf; deposition rules.pdf, HRes8Sec3b.pdf 
As promised , I'm sending along the rules that govern procedure for depositions taken by committees of the House of 
Representativ es. I've also attached the document production instructions, to guide any production you may provide. 
As always, please let me know If you have any questions. 
Thanks, -
Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack 
on the United States Capitol 
U.S. House of Represen tatives  115 
DOCUMENT PRODUCTION DEFINITIONS AND INSTRUCTIO NS 
1. In complying with this request, produce all responsive documents, regardless of 
· classification level, that are in your.posses_sion, custody, or control, whether held by 
yOu or your past or present agents, employees, and representatives acting on your 
behalf. Produce all documents that you have a legal right to obtain, that you have a 
right to copy, or to which you have access, as well as documents that you have 
placed in the temporary possession, custody, or control of any third party. 
2. Requested documents , and all documents reasonably related to the requested 
documents, should not be destroyed, altered, removed, transferred, or otherwise 
made inaccessib le to the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on 
the United States Capitol ("Committee '). 
3. In the event that any entity, organization, or individual denoted in this request is or 
has been known by any name other than that herein denoted, the request shall be 
read also to include that alternative identification. 
4. The Committee's preference is to receive documents in a protected 
electronic fonn (i.e., password protected CD, memory stick, thwnb drive, or 
secure file transfer) in lieu of paper productions. With specific reference to 
classified material, you will coordinate with the Committee's Security 
Officer to arrange for the appropriate transfer of such information to .the 
Committee. This includes, but is not necessarily limited to: a) identifying 
the classification level of the responsive document(s); and b) coordinating 
for the appropriate transfer of any classified responsive document(s). 
5. Electronic document productions should be prepared according to the 
following standards: 
a. If the production is completed through a series of multiple partial 
productions, field names and file order in all load files should match. 
b. All electronic documents pfoduced to the Committee should include the 
following fields of metadata specific to each document, and no 
modifications should be made to the original metadata: 
BEGDOC , ENDDOC, TEXT, BEGATTACJ-1, ENDATTACH , 
PAGECOUNT, CUSTODIAN, RECORDTYPE, DATE, TlME, 
SENTDATE ,. SENTTIME, BEGINDATE, BEGINTIME, END DATE, 
ENDTIME, AUTHOR, FROM, CC, TO, BCC, SUBJECT, TITLE, 
FILENAME, FILEEXT, FILESIZE, DA TECREA TED, TIMECREATED, 
DATELASTMOD, TIMELASTMOD, INTMSGID, INTMSGHEADER, 
NATIVELINK , INTFILPATH, EXCEPTION, BEGATTACH.  116 
6. Documents produced to the Committee should include an index describing the 
contents of the production. To the extent more than one CD, hard drive, memory 
stick, thumb drive, zip file, box, or folder is produced, each should contairy an 
index describing its contents. 
7. Documents produced in response to this request shall be produced together with 
copies of file labels, dividers, or identifying markers with which they were 
associated when the request was served. 
8. \Vhen you produce documents, you should identify the paragraph(s) or rcqucst(s) 
i'n the Committee's letter .to which the documents respond. 
9. The fact that any other person or entity also possesses non•identical or identical 
copies of the same documents shall not be a basis to withhold any information. 
10. The pendency ofor potential for litigation shall not be a basis to 
withhold any information. 
11. In accordance with 5 U.S.C.§ 552(d), the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) 
and any statutory exemptions to FOIA shall not be a basis for withholding any 
information. 
12. Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. § 552a(b)(9), the Privacy Act shall not be a basis for 
withholding information. 
13. If compliance with the request cannot be made in full by the specified return date, 
compliance shall be made to the extent possible by that date. An explanation of 
why full compliance is not possible shall be provided along with any partial 
production, as well as a date certain as to when full production will be satisfied. 
14. In th.e event that a document is withheld on any basis, pfovide a log containing tl1e 
following information concerning any such document: _(a) the reason it is being 
withheld, including, if applicable, the privilege asserted; (b) the type of document; 
(c) the general subject matter; (d).tbe date, author, addressee , and any other 
recipient(s); (e) the relationship of the author and addressee to each other; and (I) 
the basis for the withholding. 
15. If any document responsive to this request was, but no longer is, in your 
possession , custody, or control, identify the document (by date, author, subject, 
and recipients), and explain the circumstances under which the document ceased 
to be in your possession, custody, or control. Additionally, identify where the 
responsive document can now be found including name, location, and contact 
information of the entity or entities now in possession of the responsive · 
document(s). 
16. If a date or other descriptive detail set forth in this request referring to a document  117 
is inaccurate, but the actual date or other descriptive .detail is known to you or is 
otherwise apparent from the cohtext of the request, produce all documents that 
would be responsive as if the date or other descriptive detail were correct. 
17. This request is continuing in nature and applies to any newly-discovered 
infonnation. Any record, document, compilation of data, or information not 
produced because it has not been located or discovered by the return date shall be 
produced immediately upon subsequent location or discovery. 
18. All documents shall be BatesNstamped sequentially and produced sequentially. 
19. Upon completion of the production, submit a written certification , signed by you or 
your counsel, stating that: (1) a diligent search has been completed of all 
documents in your possession, custody, or control that reasonably could contain 
responsive documents; and 
(2) all document<; located during the search that are responsive have been produced 
to the Committee. 
IWillWllm 
I. The term "document" means any written, recorded, or graphic matter of any nature 
whatsoever, regardless of classification level, how recorded, or how 
stored/displayed (e.g. on a social media platfonn) and whether original or copy, 
including , but not limited to, the following: memoranda, reports, expense reports, 
books, manuals, instructions, financial reports, data, working papers, records, notes, 
letters, notices, confirmations , telegrams , receipts, appraisals, pamphlets, 
magazines , newspapers, prospectuses, communications, electronic mail (email), 
contracts, cables, notations of any type of conversation, telephone call, meeting or 
other inter~office or intra-office communication, bulletins, printed matter, computer 
printouts, computer or mobile device scrcenshots/screen captures, teletypes, 
invoices, transcripts, diaries, analyses, returns, summaries , minutes, bills, accounts, 
estimates, proj~ctions, compariso ns, messages, correspondence, press releases, 
circ.ulars, financial statements, reviews, opinions, offers, studies and investigations, 
questionnaires and surveys, and work sheets (and all drafts, preliminary versions, 
alterations, modifications, revisions, changes, and amendments of any of the 
foregoing, as well as any attachments or appendices thereto), and graphic or oral 
records or representatio ns of any kind (including without limitation, photographs, 
charts, graphs, microfiche, microfilm, videotape;recordings and motion pictures), 
and electronic, mechanica l, and electric records or representations of any kind 
(including, without limitation, tapes, cassettes, disks, and recordings) and other 
written, printed, typed, or other graphic or recorded matter of any kind or nahtre, 
however produced or reproduced, and whether preserved in writing, film, tape, disk, 
videotape, or otherwise. A document bearing any notation not a part of the original 
text is to be considered a separate document. A draft or non-identical copy is a 
separate document within the meaning of this term.  118 
2. The term "commun ication" means each manner or means of disclosi.lre or 
exchange of information, regardless of means utilized, whether oral, electronic , 
by document or otherwise, and whether in a meeting, by telephone , facsimile, 
mail, releases, electronic message including email (desktop or mobile device), text 
message, instant message, MMS or SMS message, message application , through a social 
media or online platfonn, or otherwise. 
3. The tenns "and" and "or" shall be construed broadly and either conjunctively or 
disjunctively to bring within the scope of this request any information that might 
otherwise be construed to be outside its scope. The singular includes plural number, 
and vice versa. The masculine includes the feminine and neutral genders. 
4. The term "including" shall be copstrued broadly to mean "including, but not limited 
to." 
5. The term "Company" means the named legal entity as well as any units, firms, 
partnerships , associations, corporations, limited liability companies, trusts, 
subsidiaries, affiliates, divisions, departments , branches, joint ventures, 
proprietorships , syndicates, or other legal, business or governme nt entities over 
which the named legal entity exercises control or in which the named entity has any 
ownership whatsoever. 
6. The tenn "identify,'_' when used in a question about individuals, means to 
provide the following infonnation: (a) the individual's complete name and title; 
(b) the individua _l's business or personal address and phone number; and (c) 
any and all known aliases. 
7. The term "related to" or "referring or relating to," with respect to any given 
s\.lbject, means anything that constitutes, contains, embodies, reflects, identifies, 
states, refers to, deals with, or is pertinent to that subject in any manner 
whatsoever. 
8. The term "employee" means any past or present agent, borrowed employee , 
casual employee, consultant, contractor, de facto employee, dctailcc, 
assignee, fellow, independent contractor, intern, joint adventurer, loaned 
employee, officer, part-time employee , pemrnnent employee, provisional 
employee, special government employee, sub~ontractor, or·any other type of 
service provider. 
9. The term "individual" means all natural persons and all persons or entities 
acting on their behalf.  119 
"=it!} 
January 4, 2021 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE H41 
hoaltb, safel.y, and well-bo!ng of otheni 
pre11t1nt In the Ohamber a.nd 111u·l'(lundlng 
area.a. Members and at.a!! w111 not be por­
mittfKl to enter the Hall ot tho House with­
out wearing a mask. M!U!kll ,.,m be ave.liable 
at the entry points !or any M8mbsr who tor­
gets to brlnJ one. The Cha.Ir views the faUuro 
to wear a mask as a serious breach of deco­
rum. The Sorgeant.-at-Arme ls d1roctoo. to on­
!orce thie policy. BMe\i upon the h8alth and 
safety rnldance from the at.tendlng phyel­
olan 11,nd the 6el'1feant-at..Arrr.s, the Che.Ir 
would further advise t.>i.at all Members 
should leave the Oh.a.mber promptly after 
O"-l!ting their votes. Furt.hermo re, Members 
should avoid congregat ing In tho rooms lend­
Ing to the Chamber, Including the Speall:or'a 
lobby. The Chair will continua the practice 
or providing small grou))ll of Members with a 
minimum or 6 minutes within whloh to ct1,11L 
their votea. Membel"I! are encouraged to vote 
with thelr prevlously'ualgnod group. After 
voting. Members must ol~r the Oha.mber to 
allow the nsxt group a. safe and sufficient DP­
oortunltY to vats. It b el!Sl:lnt!BJ for the 
health and safety of Members, llte.ff, and tho 
U.S. CA[llt.ol Polloo to oonflistent.ly praotlce 
eoolal dtstanolng and to ensure that a safe 
oa.paolty be malnta.lned in tho Chamber at 
all times. To that end, tho Clla.!r apvreotates 
thecooperatlonotMembersa11dstatfl11pre-
11et·vlng ordur and decorum In tho Chamber 
and in displaying reapect and safety for one 
another by wearing a m11,11k and practlclng 
sooJal dletanolng. All flllllOllnoed pollo!es, in­
cluding those MldreMlng decorum in doba.te 
and the conduct or vote13 by electronic d9-
vloe, ohall be carried out In harmony with 
thil'I pel!oy during the pendenoy or a oovored 
period. 
117TH CONGRESS REGULATIONS 
li'OR USE OF DEPOSlT lON AU­
THORITY 
COMMl'l'TBR 0~ Ruu:s, 
HOUSJ. OF Rl':PRE8Btl"1'ATIV£S, 
Was/ilngton, DC, JanuaTJl 4, lOll. 
Hon. NANCY pg1,0s1, 
Speaker, Houu of Rl!Jlrerimtaltvu, 
Washlngton,DC. 
MADAM Srl'lAKER: Purenant to !IBOtlon 3(b) 
or Houae Roa-Olutlon 8. 117th Congre"'8, I hore­
by aubmlt the Collowlng regulatlom regard­
Ing tho oonduot or depositions bY committee 
and eelsct committee eounael for l)rintlng In 
the Congressional Record. 
Slnoeroly, 
JAMBS P. MoQOVERN, 
Chairman . c~mmmee on Rtdet. 
RElOUW!.TlONS FOO. TtlJ! US!: OJ> 08POl:ll'I'ION 
AUTHORITY 
1. Notices for tho ta.king or deposltlona 
1ha.ll aDOOlf'Y tho date, ttmo, an(! phi.co orox­
a.mina.tlon . Del)Ollltlonl! shall bo tak:cn under 
oa.th administere d by a member or a per.son 
othorwlse authorized to administer oaths 
Doposltlono may continue from da.y to (Ul.y. 
2. Consulta.tlon with tho rank\.ng minority 
m.ernbor shall Include three days' notice be­
foro any dol)Ollltlon 111 taken. All inombors or 
tho committee shall also receive three dil.ye 
written notioo that a deoosltion will bo 
ta.kon, except In exigent olroumstiu:ce11 . For 
purposea or the"ll proeed\U88, IL day sha.\l not 
lnol11<lo Saturdays, Sund11.ys, or legRI holl­
M.ys excopt wbon the Houn ls In f!eSSlon on 
such a day. 
3. Witnesses may be aocompe.nled at a. dop­
osltlon by persona.I, nongovornmontal coun­
sel to advlso them of thofr rights. Only mem­
bor.s, eomrntttoo st!'!f deslgnatod by tho 
ch!l-11' or ranklnir minority mombtlr, IUl offi­
elal reporter. the wltns!III, and the wltne!lll'9 
counsel are pormlttoo. to attend. Observers 
or counaol for othor persons. Including ooun­
ael for gov!irnmont agsnotos, ma.y not attend. 4. The ollalr or the oommlttoe notlc1ug th& 
dopos!tlon mlL,Y designate that deposltlon a.a 
par.; of a Joint Investigation between oom­
mlttoos, nnd In that 011.11a, provide notice to 
tho mombtlro or the oommlttoos . tr such a 
designation Is me.de, tho ohalr and ranking 
minority mon1bor of tho a.ddltlonal oom­
mtttoo(s) ma.y deslgn11-te committee et;a.f! to 
attend pursuant to regulation 3. Members 
and deslgn11-ted 11tarr or tho oommlttee.s mp.y 
att1md and ask qneBtlons as eet forth bolow. 
6. A depeeltion shall be conducted by any 
member or committee oounml d66lgnated by 
the ol,ah-or r11-nklng minority member of the 
committee the.t notle&d tho doposltlon. 
When depositions are conducted by com­
mlttoo oouru5el. thore Shall be no moni than 
two committee counsol permitted to qu110-
tlon a wltnoss per round. One of tho com­
mittee oounsel shall be deslgnatod by tho 
chair and tho othor by the ranking minority 
memOOrporro und. 
6. Deposition oueatlona shall ht! pro­
pounded ln rounda. Tlie longth of ea.ch round 
11ha.ll not exceoct 60 mlnutc!I por etdo, &nd 
shall provide equal time to the majority a.nd 
t.he minority. In o&eh roun<I, the member(e) 
or eommltteo oounsol dostgna.ted by the 
obalr shall ask riuostlons rtrst, and the mem­
ber(s) or .committee oonnsel designated by 
tho ranking minority mombor ohall ask 
questions second. 
7. Objeotlona must bo atatoct oono!aely and 
In a non-argumentative and n011-81.llrll"est\ve 
manner. A wltnoas'e ooun.seI may not In­
struct a wltne91; to reruee to answer a quel!­
t!on. except to preserve a. prlvllogo. In tho 
event or proress!ona. l, oth!oa.l, or other m\s­
oonduot by tho wltneas'11 counsel d11rlng tho 
deposition, tlio Committee may tako any ap­
propriate dtsolpllnary a.otion. 'J'bo witness 
may ref'u&e to answor a. qnostlon only to pro­
oerve a pdvilege. Wllon the witnesehlL!lre­
ti.111ed to answer a question to pniaerve a 
prlvlio!:'(l, mombers or staff may (I) proo&ed 
wlth tho doposltlon, or (Ii) olthOl" at lhli.t 
time or at a 11ubaequont time, seek a.ruling 
from tho Cha.Ir eithot by telepl!one or othor­
wtsc. If the Chair overrules any such obJoe­
tlon and thereby ordora a witness to answer 
any queot\on to which an obJootlon WM 
lo(.lgw, tho witnes.s shall bo ordered to a.n­
swor. lf a. momber of the commttt.oo ·chooees 
to a.ppoal tho ruling or the chair, such 11.ppoal 
must be made wlth!n three da.yo, in wr\ttng, 
a.nd shall be preaorved for committee ooneld­
era.tlon. The Committee's ruling on appeal 
shall be mad with the clerk of tho com­
mltt&e llJ"ld 11ha.11 bo provld11d to t'he membere 
an(! wltneas no lesa than tl1ree days before 
the reconvened depositio n. A Qooonent who 
ref\lBaa to e.nswei-a question art.er being d\­
reoted to answer by tho clmlr may be subJoot 
tosanoUon.exoeptthatnosanctlonama.ybe 
Imposed lfthe rullpgoftho cha.tr Is revorsed 
bythecommitt<,oonal)poa.l. 
8. Tho Oommlttoo chair eba.11 onsuro that 
tho testimony le either tr.'fl.llsortbod or oleo­
tronloa.lly recorded or both. 1f a w\tneaa's 
testimony 111 t:rn.nscrlbed, the witness or th11 
witness's oounsel shall be a,(tordod an oppor­
tunity to review a copy. No later than five 
days a{tor the wltne68 has been not\fiod or 
tho oppo,•tonlty to rovlow the l;rani,.orl pl, the 
witness may eubmlt snggosted cha.ngoa to 
tho ohalr. committee stsrf may make any 
typographical and technica l changes. Sub­
et:antlvo chango,;. modification.,, clarlfiO&­
tiona, or amendmont& to the deposition tran­
acrlpt 11ubmltted by the wltneS11 must be ac­
companied by a letter signed by the wltnoss 
l"eque11tlng the change9 11-nd a statement or 
tho wltnea.s's refUlons for each proposed 
change. Aey 11ub11tantlve ohang09, modifica­
tions, ola.rtncatlons, or nmendments shall be 
lnoludod a.a an appendix to the transorlpt 
conditioned upon tl10 wltneS11 signing the 
tra.noorlpt. 9. The lndlvldull.l admln!11terlng the oath, It 
othor tl'.a.n 11, nwmbor, shall oortlfy on the 
traru;crlpt that tho wltneBII w11s duly sworn. 
The tra.n~rlber ahall certify that tlio tran­
script ls a true reooNl or tho testimony. and 
tho trau11Crlpt shall ho f\lod, togotlier with 
11,ny eleotronlo recording, with the 0J11rk of 
the committoo \n W11-11htngton, DC. Deposi­
tlm1s shall be considered to have been taken 
In WasJungton, DO, lUI well ll8 tho looatio 11 
actually ta.ken onoe mod thore wlth tho 
clerk of the committee tor the committee's 
01111. The cha.Jr and tho ranking m!Jlorlty 
momhor shall be provldad with a copy of the 
transorl pl".l! of tho doposltJon 11-t the same 
time. 
10. Tho chair and ranking minority mem­
bor shall consult regarding the re\011311 of 
dopos\tlon testimony, transcripts, or rocord­
lngs, and partJon= thoreof. If olther obJeote 
ln writing to a propo~ed rolelU!e or 11, depool­
tlo11 testimony, tran11orlpt, or record!.n,g. or a 
oortlon thoreof. tlio m11-tter $1\B.ll be prompt­
ly rororrad to the committee for reeolutlon. 
\1. A witness sho.ll not bo requlrod to tes­
tlfy Unlell!l tho wltne1111 ha.II been Pl'OVlded 
with a oopy or sootlon 3(b) ot H. Rea. 8, 117th 
Oongre61:1, flond thesereg ulatlonll. 
REMOTE COMMl'ITEE PRO-
OEEDINOS REGULATIONS PUllSU­
ANT TO HOUSE RESOLUTION 8, 
117TH CONGRESS 
CO!<IMrJ'l'l.Ul ON RULii:$, 
HOUSE 011' R.l!:PRBSENTATIV&S. 
Wa.thl"IIDll»I, DC, Ja.11ua1114, 2021. 
Uon.NANIJY Pln.081, 
StMQ.ker, House of Re,:1re1entattus, 
Washhigton, DO. 
MADAM Sf!',AKl!IR: Purnuant to section 3(11) 
of House Reoolutlon 8, U7th Congresa, I here­
by eubmlt tho following regula.tloillil regard­
Ing fflmote oommlttoo proceedings for print­
Ing ln the CONORE8SIONAL R&eORD. 
Slncorely . 
J,11,ms P. McOoV!IRN, 
Chairman. 
Committee on Rules. 
REMOTE OOMMI'l'I'EK PROCEEDINGS Ri.:ouLA­
TIONS PUR!!UANT 'l'O HOUSE RESOLUTJON 8 
A. PRESENIDl AND VOTJ:,0 
l. Members p,wtlolpatlng remotely In 11, 
commltteoproooed lngmuetbcvislbleon t.ho 
software platform's vldoo runotlon to be oon­
sldered in attonda.noe and t.o putlolpate un­
los~ con.nootJvlty 1881108 or other tochnlcal 
pl'Obloms rendor the member unable to fully 
pa.rtlcll)Q.teon camcro.(oxoopta..s provldod In 
rogulatlo1111 A.2 and A.3). 
2. The exoeptlon In regulation A.l tor 
oonneotlv!ty le11uo~ or other tochnica.l prob­
lems does not apply !ta point of order hu 
boon made that a quorum ls not preaont. 
Membel"8 I)ll,rtlolpn.tlng remotely must be 
vlolbleont.heaortwaroplatform'11 vldeorunc ­
t1on In order to be counted ror the purpose or 
11111.1Lb\111blngaquorum. 
3. The exo-opt!on in regulation A.1 for 
connectivity Issues or other toolrnloal prob­
lema dooa not apply during a vote. Members 
oo.rttolpatlng remotely mnat bG vlslhle on 
the software p!A.trorm's video tu.notion In 
order to vote. 
4. Mombers participating romotoly off­
oamora due to connootivlty 11111111111 or othor 
teobotoal probloms pursuant to regulation 
A.l muet lnfo1·m commlttoo m.ajorlty and 
minority etarr e\thor directly or through 
staff. 
6. The ohalr shall make a good fol.Ith affort 
to provide overy member experlenoing 
connectivity Issues 11-n opportuni~y to par­
ticipate fully In tho proceodlngs. subJoot \.o 
1·eg11l11-tlonsA.2a.ndA.:J.  120 
H. Res. 8 
In the House of Representatives, U. S., 
Jcmuary 4, 2021. 
Resolved, 
SECTION 1. ADOP'rION OF THE RULES OF THE ONE HUNDRED 
SIXTEENTH CONGRESS. 
The Rules of t.he House of Iwpresentalives of the One 
Hundred Sixteenth Congress, including applicable provisions 
of law or concurrent resolution that constituted mies of the 
House at the end of the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress, 
>tre adopted as the Rrtles of the House of Rcp1·eseutatives of 
the One Hnnclred Seventeenth CongTcss, with amendments to 
the st.anding rules as provided ·in section 2, and with other 
orders as provided in this resolution. 
SEC. 2. CHANGES TO THE STANDING RULES. 
(a) C01''PORMIKG CHANG!,.- In clause 2(i) of rule II­
(1) strike the designation of suhpara6rra.ph (l); tmd 
(2) strike subpru·agraph (2). 
(b) O1•'i''JCB 0i'' D1vmcs1·rv AND Ixc1,uscoN AND OFFr.crn 
01, '.l'Hlc WHlS'rT,F,DL0W~R OM:DUDS.- 121 
16 
SEC. 3. SEPARATE ORDERS. 
(a) MEMimR DAY HE.ARING l!.EQUJREMEN'r.-During 
the first session of the One Hund.red Seventeenth CongTess, 
each standing commit.tee (other than the Committee on Eth­
ics) or each subcommittee thereof (ciUrnr tha.n a subcommitte e 
on oversight) shall hold a hearing at which it reeeivt-is testi­
mony from l\oiemhers, Delegates, and the Resident Conunis­
sioncr on p1·oposcd .legislation within its jurisdiction, except 
that the Committee on Rules may hold such hearing during 
the second session of the One Hundred Seventeenth Con-
gress. 
(b) DKPOST'PION Au•J~HOIU'l'Y.-
(1) Dnring the One Hundred Seventeenth OongTess, 
the chair of a standing committee (other than the Com­
m:ittcc on Ru.Jes), and the chair or tbe Permanent Select 
Comrnittee on Intelligence, upon consultation ,vith the 
ranking minority member of such committee, may onler 
the taking of depositions, ineluding pursuant t.o sub­
poena, by a .me.mber or counsel of such committee. 
(2) Depositions taken under the authority pre­
scribed in this subsection shall be snbject to regulafaons 
issued. by .tlie cha.i.r of the Committee ou Rules aud print­
ed in the Congressiona l lkcord. 
(c) W.AR Pow1,ms RrnSOJ,U'l'JON.-Dur.ing the One Hun­
dred Seventeenth Congl'css, a motion to discha.tge a mea&'Ure 
iutrocluccd purmrnut to section 6 or section 7 of the War 
•JOtES 8 EH  122 
38 
• • • •. And, with that, I will note for the record that it is 10:07 a.m., and Mr. 
Meadows still has not appeared or communicated to the select committee that he 
will appear today as required by the subpoena. 
Accordingly , the record is now closed as of 10:07 a.m. 
[Whereupon, at 10:07 a.m., the deposition was concluded.]  123 
39 
The official transcript for Mr. Meadows's voluntary deposition on 
December 8, 2021, is as follows: 
SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON 
THE U.S. CAPITOL, U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, WASH­
INGTON , DC 
DEPOSITION OF: MARK MEADOWS (NO-SHOW) 
WEDNESDAY , DECEMBER 8, 2021 
WASHINGTON , DC 
The deposition in the above matter was held in • • • • commencing at 10:00 
PRESENT: Representatives SCHIFF and LoFCREN. 
APPEARANCES: 
FOR THE SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6TH 
ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL: 
• • • •. All right. It's 10 a.m. So we'll go ahead and get started going on the 
record 
This is a deposition of Mark Meadows, conducted by the House Select Committee 
to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, pursuant to 
House Resolution 503. 
My name is••**. That's****, and I'm the chief investigative counsel to the 
select committee. With me today arc****, who is a senior investigative counsel, 
and Ms. ZOE; LCWGREN, who is a member of the select committee, is also partici· 
patingremotely. 
Based on an agreement with counsel to Mr. 
at 10 a.m. IL is now 10 a.m., and Mr. Meadows 
gaged in several discussio ns with Mr. Meadows' counsel regarding the scope of his 
production and the subject matters to be developed at his deposition. 
Staff provided Mr. Meadows' counsel with specific areas in which it is interested 
R:fh!:k~~a~1
:n!~~~do;:h ~hi:e;e\~ t~o:m~t::e ,wifr1.d ~\~!Ji:: fs~i~:~e th:s;:r;i;: 
former White House chief of staff, he cannot be compelled to provide information 
to ~ongress. He comm~nicaf:ed hi_s_ blanket 3:ssertion of immunity, in addition to 
claims of executive pnv1lege, m wntmg to Chairman THOMPSON 
On Novembe r 12th, 2021, the select committee convened the scheduled deposition 
of Mr. Meadows after the current White House indicated, in writing, that President 
Biden would not assert any immunity or privilege that would prevent Mr. Meadows 
from appearing a~d answering the committee's. questions. 
Mr. Meadows did not appear for that depos1t1on on November 12th, as indicated 
in his prior correspondence. 
He also failed to produce any documents responsive to the select committee's sub-
~fl:~r~f/'~1v1~~~~l:~a~f,:~nf c~!~':-1}0°:~~v:li~sf~i~~':i~~~~c~mde;~~c nts, se-
lect committee staff engaged in further discussions with Mr. Meadows' counsel re­
garding the status of his noncooperation 
Mr. Meadows ultimately agreed to produce some documents and to appear for a 
deposition today, December 8th, 2021, at 10 a.m., an offer which the chairman ex­
tended to_ him as a good faith effort to enable Mr. ~1ea~ows to _cure his failure to 
comply with the September 23rd subpoena and provide mformat1on relevant to the 
select committee's investigation 
Mr. Meadows has now produced documents. Counsel made clear that Mr. Mead­
ows intended to withhold some responsive information due to a claim of executive 
privilege. He ~greed to produce docum~n_ts he believes_ arc not covered by lhat or 
a'"!y other privilege and_ to produce a_ pnv1legc log identifying responsive documents 
withheld due to such pnvilege assertions 
on Hseu:J~t a!afir~ r:rrvaa:t f~ :h~e~l8
~~0~!~~~~~ ?~q:f~l'd a~ i~!~~fn~~~ti~~~  124 
40 
Erior correspondence, and either answer the questions or articulate a claimed privi-
c:~!~/fr~t;'~~~;:r·:Sfti~~wos~ ~h~11~\,tt!iit~i~r~:ri~~011 ::~i1c:~;:~~0;re:~1
~ 
record for further discussion and consideration of possible enforcement by the select 
committee. 
Consistent with t~at agreement, Mr. Meado~s did produce documents and privi­
lege logs. More s~1fically, he produced approximately 6,600 pages of records ta~e~ 
from personal email accounts he used to conduct officrnl business, as well as a pnv1-
tion.\ti:t~;,s h:8ha~h~ot~ ~::rr::d ~iai~t~~:~r !~~:/~~~· :~efvtd~i~~ 
:=~dec~~11./:°p~~: t~~~~hiss~:~i~:e11:~t:~;rdi:~i?~~n!J!W\~~sf~t;e~:~ p_nor 
th~v:e~ ~~~~~te!r ~nil ~;~[i~tt;~rd~iiro;0r!fe~3:t i~to~a11S:~ i~ t11.ef1~~~~ 
ows' possession and to, more specifically, understand the contours of his executive 
privile.geclaim. 
weAg:irev~h~ti1d~ i~~~:y';f ~~:;rz:bi! ~aT~k t'/tex~~:~?i:sa~~~~t~~n~li~~at~ 
Fifth Amendment, or other potentially applicable privilege. 
Our hope is that he would answer those questions, which would materially ad­
vance the select committee's investigation, given Mr. Meadows' service as White 
ro:~s~uc:s~i~i~ ,s~~1~~i:t~ithl:~;~~~~riit1~!eah~r~1;~:~~ersi:pk!k:r:n~ h~: 
~~:[tt~i:sat;htd;;,:ti!!~i~g~:::!~~ni~d f~rthvea!di~Jj~-o~~e;~ihi/r.17~~~gd~!~; 
COMr~ek1:i:o\C:S?tif~;;';!t~~~ea~fofi::rod:~,!11c~:i~~na~~~OJ~e!t~sa~1 ;~ce;;a;:~ 
~~f~!!1 l~o ~nli!~er ~~r t~isl le~:i~!~~~~~~~~ his ~ill}~~ n:~~:!~ia~i:~ir;· th~ms~= 
committee's subpoena. 
a ~~e:1:r ~~~~~~~! !~:r!~bf:t!1iih:~~!it~:lie~t?;e w:ell~~~i~:vif aast:dc1~\~ 
of executive privilege. More specifically, we would have asked Mr. Meadows ques­
tions about his use of personal email and cellular phones. 
Mr. Meadows' document production includes documents taken from two Gmail ac­
counts. We would've asked him how and for what purpose he used those Gmail ac­
counts and when he used one of them as opposed lo his official White House email 
account. We would've similarly asked him about his use of a personal cellular tele­
phone. 
We would have sought to develop information about when Mr. Meadows. used ~is 
fi;rsonal cell phone for calls and text messages and when he used his official White 
°M~~ ~!~~~!~? ~%J~~{i~~uon:~ments shows that he used the Gmail accounts 
and his personal cellular phone for official business related to his service as White 
House chief of staff. Given that fact, we would ask Mr. Meadows about his efforts 
~ ~he:~st~i~i:iocR~~erd~ !;t~ ~~~\f;, l~~i;:1~hht~t~sk~/M~ilf!~d~;~t;~~ 
his use of a signal account, which 1s reflected m the text messages he produced. 
In addition, we would have asked Mr. Meadows about particular emails that he 
produced to the select committee. We do not believe these emails implicate any valid 
claim of executive or other privilege, given that Mr. Meadows has produced the 
emailstotheselectcommittee 
Specifically, we would've asked Mr. Meadows about emails about the Electoral 
~°C~~~~~ti~c\~di~;0!'N!v~~~t;tt1~2tr:~:il~iih a~~f!~h~e~~~~ewif:l~l~~! 
:::it~Y;:ci!:3i~~ e;o~e~~b23~d~in~l~~at\1:.atrc;ai!:t i~dic~~?~~~~!t~1
~~~~ 
~Rudy was put in charge. That was the President's decision," end quote, that reflects 
a direct communication between Mr. Meadows and the President. 
We would've asked him about emails from Mr. Meadows to leadership at the De­
partment of Justice on December 29th and 30th, 2020, and January ht, 2021, en· 
;~~a!u~Fy i~b~~~dtt~s s0~:cus!int~#edi~r f~~~iti~~~!~ii~~dcl~:i!!i3tyha#ed~al 
courts.  125 
41 
We would have asked Mr. Meadows about emails regarding the deployment of the 
National Guard on January 6th, including a January 5th email from Mr. Meadows 
in which he indicates that the Guard would be present at the Capitol to, quote, "pro­
tect pro Trump people," end quote. 
In additio_n, we would have asked Mr. Meadows about_ specific text messages he 
sent or _received that he has produced to the scleet comm1ttce. Given M!". Meadows' 
production of these te~t messages to the select ct?n:imittee, they do not, m our view, 
im#!c~iuid{;ai;!:iW~~lor::k!d~kf~.0~1:~hde!:t~~!ttext messa s regardin cf-
texts in December o.f 2020 regarding the prospect of the President's appointment of 
Jew:yw~~id~v:8a~k~d\1~~~~:ao~:n:~~t text messages sent to and from another 
~~~~~:hi~~:?fc~~sa~kerh:~m:~ailf ii;e~:n!~ n::i:. ;~: ;~~~:ntf~c!~i~ht~~~'. 
Meadow s asks for contact information for the attorney general of Arizona to discuss 
messages sent to and received from 
the Senate about objections to the 
im 
about text messag~s sent to an~ rccci.ved from a. Sena~or regarding the Vice Presi­
dent's power to reJect electors, mc\udmg a text in which Mr. Meadows recounts a 
dircet communication with President Tromp who, according to Mr. Meadows in his 
text messages, quote, ''thinks the legislators have the power, but the VP has power 
too,~ end quote. 
r:i~e a\~~~1
3iah~~a:~:~ty ~i~-t!~:~i:~ f~h.t i02L ~;!~~rig s~h! ~~g~~teim~~ec~ 
r1:.::~d!1i:T~~~~~~!~::ro~hcl~~f~Si~;J~1, ~daktr11i:d~~~t;~:ible ~:;re:;~ 
ment by a news channel. 
We would've asked Mr. Meadows about text messages sent to and received from 
an organizer of the January 6th events on the Ellipse about planning the event, in­
~~~/d~J~!~d_bout who would speak at the event and where certain individuals 
We'd ask Mr. Meadows about. text messages regarding President. Tn.imp's. Janu~ry 
~nx'1ts 2i2l~a1~~ c;!1rttf;a~:i~~h~~~faa7' i~f !i/~1~~:~ a~a~~nsrsric:t ~~~~i~~ ! 
~dfir d';!i\:C: !~{:1 c~\~~:r~fo[h~~:ri_ess aft-Or the call took place regarding strat-
We would've asked Mr. Meadows about text messages exchanged with various in­
dividuals, including Mem™:rs of Congress, on J.anuary 6th, both before, during, ~nd 
after the aLtack on .the Umted States Capitol,.including text.messages en~uragmg 
Mr. Meadows to fac1hta1.-0 a statement by President Trump discouraging violence at 
the Capitol on January 6th, including a text exchange with a media personality who 
had encouraged the presidential statement asking people to, quote, "peacefully leave 
the Capitol," end quote, as well as a text sent to one of-by one of the President's 
family members indicating that Mr. Meadows is, quote, ~pushing hard," end quote, 
for a statemen t from President Trump to, quole, "condemn this shit," end quote, 
happening at t.he Capitol 
Text messages: We wo.u)d ask Mr. Mea~ows questions abou~ text messages reflect-
~fog~ r.};~:1e~~1w~ri~e~~\CSidn;ri~i~~11
~nsd1.af;;:~k.~~tic7:~di~So~~lclh:i~:~a0~t~~f 
claims of tampcnng with Dominion voting machines 
ti;;s i~d~i~ktll7h~1t;~th:~t r.µ-/2/1ch~f;sc1~~?fnnswhtht h8J°~t~~~!~i}!~ 
f~cts relevant to the scl.ect COf!lmittee's investigation and directly describes commu­
mcations with the Pre.s1dent, 1~cluding on page 259, quote, "A few sentences l~tcr, 
President Trump ad libbed a lme that no one had seen before, saying, 'Now 1t 1s 
up to Congress to confront this egregious assault on our democracy. After this, we're 
going to walk down-a nd I'll be there with you-we're going to walk down to the  126 
42 
Capitol and we're going to c~C<lr on our b~ave Senators and Congressmen and 
women. We're probably not go,ng to be checnng so much for some of them because 
you'll never take back our country with weakness. You have to show strength. You 
have to be strong.' When he got off stage, President Trump let me know that he 
~:da~~/~~~i~e :~tifrl~t~~~ini:u; ~~~ \ift ~a\h~nC!~~t\~1:-/~~tic!,~ ;~~ 
quote. 
We would've asked Mr. Meadows about another passage in his book that appears 
on page 261. Quote, "In the aftermath of the attack, President Trump was mortified. 
He knew the media would take this terrible incident and twist it around. He also 
knew his days on Twitter were probably numbered," end quote. 
Q~~~e,w"~~~>k~• ¥~e!~'1!~~{Ja:a0t{o a~~\~fhJ1P1! !i~1~ 0hat!gio 2:r~~Je~i~~it 
f~~:. iie~;i~ie~i~,t~t :e~\:tr~ a;:rr0~!~ nho~vJo~e~~~~"e:i~e~~~:~.but I didn't 
We would've asked Mr. Meadows about another passage in his book on page 264 
that reflects, quot.c, "On January 20th, with less than 5 hours left in his historic 
Presidency, at a time when most outgoing Presidents would be quietly making notes 
~:U!ei~::;,e~;~: r!~eJat inJcr!!~thi~f l~~~i~Y t~i::te ai;ai~e,~~~o H;~io'of~si~~~~ 
gress1' President Trump asked. 'I've heard that there arc some Republicans who 
:;1~8hqtu~.turning against us. That would be a very unwise thing for them to do,'" 
"B'::te t'i~1i;:_d ps:C!fd~~';1 Tr~~~,a;i:~e!g~[;~~~~t°~l~oeu1~6
~0~~:J ~tlti~~ 
pcachment tm~l, and we discusse d what my role in the proceedings would be after 
we left the White House," end quote. 
We would've asked him aOOut the passage on page 266 in his book where he re-
::snn~~• p{~~~~~ ;o~ ;~ea~;i~:r~~ .t:i;;::~iio~~~h,thi:r~~ ~dge~~stT~mrfrJ:~ew:sh~d~{ 
been able to complete largely due to the slowness on the part o various attorneys 
in the Federal Government. He wondere d again about the precise details of the im­
peachment. trial, including how much money the new lawyers would charge and how 
we could best defend him against the Democrats' attacks," end quote. 
These passages reflect di_rect comn:rnnicat ions ~twce_n. Mr. Meadows and Presi­
dent Trump directly impacting his clmms of executive pnv1lcge. 
l<'inally, we would ask Mr. Meadows questions aOOut statements in his book about 
his interactions with the Department of Justice. Specifically, he addresses such 
interactions with the Department of Justice on pages 257 and 258 of his book, in 
which he says, quote, "It didn't surprise me that our many referrals to the Depart­
ment of Justice were not seriously inv_estigated. I never believed they would, given 
thl;!ri~ s~:~~ei~ trtM~_cM;!d:!!, 1~k:Nr~!~ty '%fl'!1J\J~!~tt~:t~:snf h~~~~~ 
select committee seeks to develop, and his public statements directly impact his 
claims of executive privilege. 
But, as of the current time, which is now 10:17, Mr. Meadows still has not ap­
peared to cure his earlier noncompliance with the select committee's September 
23rd, 2021, subpoena . So we will not be able to ask any of those questions about 
the documents and messages that he apparentlr _agrees arc relevant to the select. 
cort!\~c n°o~ fo~t &~~:1db{h:tc~:;c~t~~a~n~~:scmFF, a member of the SC· 
lect committee, has joined and, again, that member of the committee, Representa ­
tive Lot·GRJ,;N, has joined 
Before we close the record, Mr. Sctt1n· or Ms. Lon::RtsN, do either of you have any 
comments to make for the record? 
Mr. SCHIFF. I do not. Thank you ••• •. Ms. LoFGRJ,;N, anything? 
Ms. LOFGREN. I'm good. 
• • • •. Okay. Thank you. 
Accordingly, the record of this deposition of Mark Meadows, now at 10:18 a.m., 
is closed. 
[Whereupon, at 10:18 a.m., the deposition was concluded.]  127 
43 
Additional correspondence between the Select Committee and 
counsel for Mr. Meadows is as follows (continuing the exhibit num­
bering from above): 
5. Letter from Counsel to Mark Meadows to Chairman 
THOMPSON, Nov. 19, 2021. 
6. Letter from Chairman THOMPSON to Counsel to Mark 
Meadows, Nov. 22, 2021. 
7. Letter from Counsel to Mark Meadows to Chairman 
THOMPSON, Nov. 26, 2021. 
8. Letter from Counsel to Mark Meadows to Chairman 
THOMPSON, Nov. 26, 2021. 
9. Letter from Chairman THOMPSON to Counsel to Mark 
Meadows, Nov. 28, 2021. 
10. Letter from Counsel to Mark Meadows to Chairman 
THOMPSON, Dec. 3, 2021. 
11. Letter from Counsel to Mark Meadows to Chairman 
THOMPSON, Dec. 7, 2021. 
12. Letter from Chairman THOMPSON to Counsel to Mark 
Meadows, Dec. 7, 2021.  128 
44 
Exhibit 5 -Letter from Counsel to Mark 
Meadows to Chairman Thompson, Nov. 19, 2021  129 
November 19, 202 I 
VIA EMAIL 
Honorable Bellllle G. Thompson, Cbainnan 
Honorable Liz Cheney, Vice Chair 
Select Connni"ee to Investigate the January 6th A"ack on the United States Capitol --Re: Subpoenas Served on Honorable Mark R. Meadows 
Dear Chair Thompson and Vice Chair Cheney: 
I write fm1her to our discussions about the Select Committee 's subpoena to fonner White 
House Chief of Staff Mark R. Meadows and to propose again, in greater detail, that we explore an 
accollllllodation that would allow the Select Committee to obtain useful information to fi.rrther its 
legislative plll])Ose while allowing both the Committee and Mr. Meadows to maintain their 
respective positions on relevant legal issues. We recognize that the Select Committee believes 
that it is entitled to enforce the full scope of its subpoena. The Select Colll.llllttee likewise is in a 
position to recognize that Mr. Meadows disagrees with that position. If pressed, we would expect 
that disagreement to require judicial resolution , which could take a substantial amount oftime and 
resources. 
Therefore , consistent with the long tradition and practice in disputes between Congress and 
Executive Branch officials (both current and former), we propose below an acco1WUodation that 
would allow the Select Committee to obtain information outside the compulsion of the subpoena 
and without requiring either side to give up its legal position. 
We propose that, as an initial step, Mr. Meadows provide written responses to written 
interroga tories from the Select Committee on a defined set of topics, with the specific subject 
matter for questions to be discussed between the Select Committee's counsel and counsel for Mr. 
Meadows. In a le"er dated November 11, 2021, which was copied to the Select Connni"ee, the 
Office of White House C0tmsel infonned me that President Biden is not asse1ting privilege over 
Atlanta. I Austin I Baltimore I Charloue t Owlottes vill@ I Chia.go I Dallas I Houston I Jxksonvill@ I London I Los Angt!lt!S-C-ury City 
las Angt!l@S • Downtown I Nf!w York I Norfolk I Pittsburgh I Ral@igh J Ri<:hmond I San Franc:&O I T~ I W3$hington , D.C.  130 
Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
November 19, 2021 
Page 2 
certain categories of information within the scope of the Select Committee's inquiry. Within those 
categories, we would propose an initial focus on the following topics: 
Events on or about Jmmary 6, 2021. Mr. Meadows can provide written responses to the 
Select Committee about his conduct, activities, and commun ications on January 5-6, 2021, with 
the caveat that he is not able to disclose communications with or on behalf of the President, or with 
other senior White House aides, absent the former President's agreement. (As discussed further 
below, we are willing to seek that agreement in connection with specific questions or sets of 
questions concerning a particular topic). To the extent the Select Committee already has records 
of Mr. Mcadows's activities from Presidential records or other sources, he is willing to provide 
context or other relevant background, consistent with the limitation s described above. 
Communications with the Department of Justice. Mr. Meadows can provide written 
responses to the Select Committee about his communications with the Department of Justice 
concerning the events of January 6 and concerning other post-election issues, consistent with the 
limitations described above. 
Other Post-Election Communications. We also understand that the Select Committee is 
interested in other post-election efforts and discussions regarding the results of the election and 
allegations of election fraud, including any discussions between White House officials and state 
officials in Georgia and elsewhere. It has been publicly announced that the district attorney in 
Fulton, Georgia, has impaneled or soon will impanel a special grand jury to investigate such 
communications. We therefore would propose deferring discussion of questions on this topic until 
Mr. Meadows 's status, if any, in that matter can be established. 
As indicated above, Mr. Meadows has a reasonable basis in fact and law to take the position 
that private communications that he had with or on behalf of the President, or with other senior 
White House aides, are subject to claims of Executive Privilege, as those communication s lie at 
the core of Executive Privilege. Even though President Biden has purported to waive Executive 
Privilege in this regard, President Trump has instructed Mr. Meadows to maintain the privilege. It 
is not for Mr. Meadows as a witness to be forced to choose between these conflicting instructions. 
Nevertheless, as part ofan effort to accommodate the Select Committee outside the compulsion of 
the subpoena, we are willing to seek the former President's agreement for Mr. Meadows to provide 
selective information through the means outlined above to the extent it would inform the Select 
Committee in furthering a valid legislative purpose. Our goal in doing so would be to avoid a 
dispute over Executive Privilege that might require lengthy and costly judicial resolution for all 
parties involved. To the extent the former President agrees, Mr. Meadows will also include that 
information in written responses to the Select Committee. 
We submit this proposal as an initial step. Our expectation would be that, after working 
through this written process and after further consultation with counsel for the Select Committee, 
Mr. Meadows could agree outside of compulsion by subpoena to appear voluntarily for a 
deposition within the parameters established through the initial process.  131 
Select Collllllittee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
November 19, 2021 
Page 3 
Thank you again for your willingness to discuss these important issues with us. We hope 
you will agree that the process outlined above can serve the interests of both pat1ies and potentially 
avoid the prospect of time-consuming and resource-intensive litigation, all without prejudice to 
the prerogatives of the Select Colll.llllttee or of Mr. Meadows as a former White House Chief of 
Staff. We will continue to stay in colilllltm.ication with counsel for the Select Collllllittee , and if 
the Select Committee finds this proposal agreeable as an initial step, we will work quickly with 
them to identify the Select Committee's initial intenogatories and to begin preparing Mr. 
Meadows's responses. 
George J. Terwilliger ill 
cc:  132 
45 
Exhibit 6 -Letter from Chairman Thompson to 
Counsel to Mark Meadows , Nov. 22, 2021  133 
(l)n, :!llunbrrb i,,urntttnt4 (![ongrrss U.SHouNo!Rep....,,,a1,­
WHhongton.DC20515 
)lnuary61hJ,ouM.go,, 
(1021225-7IIOO 
i,t1,ct (![ommitttt to .llnu,stigat, 14, ;Jlanuaru 614 Attack on 14, lllnitrb l,tatts (![apitol 
Mr. George Terwilliger Ill 
McGuire Woods LLP --
Dear Mr. Terwilliger, November 22, 2021 
The Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
("Select Committee") has received and considered the letter you sent on November 19, 2021, a 
full week after your client, Mr. Mark Meadows, failed to appear for a deposition and two weeks 
after a deadline to produce documents. 
Despite these failures, you again seek an accommodation via written interrogatories. Let 
me be clear, once more, on this issue: the Select Committee will not proceed with Mr. Meadows 
by submitting written interrogatories to him because we disagree that obtaining information from 
your client in writing is an appropriate accommodation. When Mr. Meadows first proposed 
interrogatories, he asked that the Select Committee "propound" them, but did not say that he 
would actually provide any substantive information in response.1 Now, after his failure to 
comply with the Select Committee's subpoena, he has added conditions: (1) the interrogatories 
can only ask questions about two days in January 2021 and Mr. Meadows's communications 
with the Department of Justice; and (2) Mr. Meadows will only respond to questions about his 
communications "with or on behalf of the [former] president, or with other senior White House 
aides" provided that he first obtains the former President's approval. These conditions stop short 
ofan agreement to provide interrogatory responses, even if the Select Committee were inclined 
to consider them. 
The Select Committee has attempted, on many occasions, to resolve the issues you have 
raised about Mr. Meadows's compliance with the Select Committee's subpoena. At your request, 
the Select Committee agreed to move the original subpoena compliance dates. When you asked 
for an overview of topics that the Select Committee planned to raise with your client, we 
accommodated your request. When you requested further accommodations, we provided 
additional details about the questions that the Select Committee intended to pose to Mr. 
Meadows in the form of a list of 16 specific topics. When you then raised, for the first time, your 
1 Lener to Chaimrnn Thompson from George Terwilliger dated November 8, 2021 (in connectio n with his proposal 
to receive interrogato ries, Mr. Meadows vaguely added that he would ''provide what infomrntion he can and/or 
articulate clear assertions of privilege where applicable to specific questions").  134 
Mr. George Terwilliger 111 
Page 2 
suggestion of written interrogator ies, the Selecl Committee provided a list of eight questions 
about Mr. Meadows's use of communications accounts and devices. To date, Mr. Meadows has 
never provided a meaningful response to the Select Committee's attempts at accommodation, has 
never provided any documents or any privilege log, and has not even responded to written 
questions that he himself invited. 
This history has led the Select Committee to suspect that you are simply engaged in an 
effort to delay, and that Mr. Meadows has no genuine intent to offer any testimony on any 
relevant topic. As you know, Mr. Meadows has extensive information unequivocally relevant to 
this investiga tion, including specific knowledge regarding former President Trump's failure for 
over three hours to demand that his supporters leave the Capitol during the violent confrontation 
on January 6th and his broader efforts to undercut the results of the fall 2020 election. Given that 
you have now for the first time identified Mr. Meadows 's potential willingness to "appear 
voluntarily for a deposition," we will now supply you with that opportunity so that you can 
demonstrate that you and your client are operating in good faith. To that end, the Select 
Committee will agree to convene a deposition for your client on November 29, 2021, at 10:00 
a.m. At that deposition, the Select Committee will begin by asking questions addressing 
obviously non-privileged topics that we have raised in earlier letters.2 As indicated previously, 
we intend to ask Mr. Meadows about his communications with individuals outside of the 
executive branch, including Members of Congress, state officials, and third parties. We also 
intend to ask Mr. Meadows questions related to his use of private email accounts, cell phones, 
and other communications devices on January 6th and other relevant dates, as well as the required 
preservation of communications and other information on such accounts and devices. 3 Those 
questions unequivocally call for non-privileged responses and are directly pertinent to the Select 
Committee's statutory right to obtain appropriate records from the National Archives under the 
Presidential Records Act. In short, there are multiple non-privileged subject matters within the 
scope of the Select Committee's investigat ion, as your most recent letter acknowledges. Again, 
we can conceive ofno appropriate basis for your client's continued failure to appear and, at a 
minimum, answer these types of questions. 
Your November I 9 letter does not suggest any accommodation with respect to the 
production of documents, which to date your client has not produced. As I have stated 
previously, the Select Committee expects Mr. Meadows to produce documents in his possession 
that are responsive to the schedule set forth in the subpoena, and to assert in a privilege log any 
claims of executive privilege that he believes cover such documents, and on a document-by­
document basis. To date, he has produced neither a single document nor a privilege log and, as a 
result, he remains in contempt of Congress for his failure to produce documents. Again, I have 
specifically asked Mr. Meadows to confirm his use and preservation of information contained 
within the specific cellular telephones and a personal email account mentioned above -issues 
that could not conceivably be covered by a privilege. He has failed to provide any informatio n 
contained in those devices or accounts, or answer even those basic questions. Nonetheless, I will 
2 Letters to George Terwilliger from Chairman Thompson dated October 25, November 5, November 9, and 
November 11, 2021. 
3 Letters to George Terwilliger from Chairman Thompson dated November 9 and November 11, 2021.  135 
Mr. George Terwilliger 111 
Page 3 
provide him one final opportunity to produce documents responsive to the September 23 
subpoena and/or a privilege log. That information must be provided no later than Friday, 
November 26, 2021. 
The accommodat ions process regarding potential claims of executive privilege typically 
involves discussions between the executive branch and the legislative branch. Mr. Meadows 
represents neither. The current administration has not asserted claims of absolute immunity or 
executive privilege. To the contrary, the White House Counsel's Office has specifically indicated 
in its letter dated November 11 that "an assertion in this circumstance would be at odds with the 
principles that underlie the privilege."4 
Nevertheless, I have in good faith considered your concerns and have proposed a course 
of action that reflects both that consideration and the Select Committee's need for information to 
fulfill its purpose of understanding the complete picture of what led to and occurred on January 
61\ making recommenda tions for changes to the law that will protect our democracy, and help 
ensure that nothing like January 6th ever happens again. 
If Mr. Meadows seeks further engagement with the Select Committee in a good-faith 
effort to begin complying w ith the Select Committee's subpoena, he must produce documents 
and/or a privilege log by noon on Friday, November 26, 2021, and appear for his deposition at 
I 0:00am on Monday, November 29, 2021. If at that time, you believe that the Committee's 
questions address topics for which you intend to continue to press a privilege claim, I trust that 
you will object and we can continue discussing your privilege arguments. The Select Committee 
will defer consideration of enforcement steps regarding Mr. Meadows's non-compliance with the 
Select Committee's subpoena pending the November 26 production of documents and November 
29 deposition. 
Sincerely, 
Bennie G. Thompson 
Chairman 
4 Letter to George Terwilliger from the White House dated November 11, 2021.  136 
46 
Exhibit 7 -Letter from Counsel to Mark 
Meadows to Chairman Thompson, Nov. 26, 2021  137 
McGuireWoods llP 
November 26, 2021 
VIA EMAIL 
Honorable Bellllle G. Thompson, Chainnan 
Honorable Liz Cheney, Vice Chair 
Select Connni"ee to Investigate the January 6th A"ack on the United States Capitol --Re: Subpoenas Served on Honorable Mark R. Meadows 
Dear Chair Thompson and Vice Chair Cheney: 
We have reviewed and considered your letter of November 23, 2021. We appreciate the 
efforts the Select Colll.llllttee has made to discuss with us in correspondence the pertinent legal 
issues raised by the Select Coll.lllllttee's subpoena and to articulate the Select Committee's legal 
position on those issues, which you no doubt believe in good faith to be correct. Nonetheless , your 
letter is mistaken is several material respects which I will address just briefly. 
Contrary to yow· suggestion that we are operating in bad faith, we have asserted the position 
that Mr. Meadows, as a former senior White House Official, is imnnme to being compelled to 
appear before Congress , period. That is the same position taken by the Department of Justice 
under Administrations of both political parties on numerou s occasions and in fact asserted 
forcefully by then Attorney General Janet Reno. \Ve have also taken the position that much of the 
matters about which the Committee would inquire of Mr. Meadows are subject to Executive 
Privilege, which is both generally and specifica lly recognized by the courts as a valid basis for a 
witness to refuse to answer such questions. 
You state in your letter: "The accollllllodation process regarding potential claims of 
executive privilege typically involves discussions between the executive branch and the legislative 
branch. Mr. Meadows represents neither." We agree. Mr. Meadows has se1ved in Congress , and 
at the times relevant to the Select Colll.llllttee's inquiry, he served in the Executive Branch. But 
today, he is a private citizen. That is precisely why he, as a witness answering questions which 
would require him to provide iufo1mation subject to claims of Executive Privilege arising from his 
Atlanta. I Austin I Baltimore I Charloue t Owlottes vill@ I Chia.go I Dallas I Houston I Jxksonvill@ I London I Los Angt!lt!S-C-ury City 
las Angt!les • Downtown I Nf!w York I Norfolk I Pittsburgh I Ral@igh J Ri<:hmond IS.in Franc&O I T~ I W3$hington , D.C.  138 
Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
November 26, 2021 
Page 2 
former service as Chief of Staff to President Trump, is not the person responsible for deciding 
whether to waive that privilege. In addition, I would respectfully remind you that Congress is also 
not the arbiter of Executive Privilege. Thus, while you have indicated in your letter that you 
believe there are many non-privileged subjects of inquiry that Mr. Meadows could discuss in a 
deposition, we may not agree with your assessment of the applicability of privilege to any given 
topic or specific question. When disputes about Executive Privilege arise, they are traditionally 
resolved by the Executive Branch itself, through a negotiated accommodatio n between Congress 
and the Executive, or through the Courts if necessary. Mr. Meadows, as a former senior White 
House aide, has no legal authority of which we are aware to unilaterally waive the privilege, nor 
is there any legal authority that obligates him to accept whatever position the Select Committee 
may take as to the scope or applicability of such privilege. 
We also understand that the Select Committee believes that President Biden is the sole 
arbiter of Executive Privilege, to the exclusion of former President Trump, over questions arising 
from President Trump's tenure. But as you know, that is a legal question that the Supreme Court 
has so far left open and the subject of a pending appeal in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. 
Circuit. So long as that issue remains unresolved, Mr. Meadows is not in a position to disregard 
instructions from former President Trump to maintain privilege. 
Given these disagreements and unresolved legal issues, Mr. Meadows has not been able to 
appear for testimony in response to the Select Committee's subpoena. But we have nevertheless 
been and remain willing to find mutually agreeable means to share relevant information with the 
Select Committee outside the context of the testimonial subpoena. 
Contrary to your letter's characterization of our offer to compromise, however, our 
suggestion of having a voluntary interview or deposition was only to follow a successful effort to 
engage in answers to interrogatories from the Select Committee. I should note that the use of 
written interrogatories is specifically provided for in the Select Committee's authorizing 
resolution. See H. Res. 503, § 5(c)(5) ("The chair of the Select Committee is authorized to compel 
by subpoena the furnishing of information by interrogatory."). Without any substantive response 
whatsoever, you have rejected this offer out of hand. 
Nonetheless, your letter invites Mr. Meadows to appear voluntarily for a deposition to 
answer questions on what you believe to be non-privileged matters. We will agree to so appear, 
subject to the Select Committee's agreement to the following understandings and conditions: 
1. Mr. Meadows 's appearance is volunta,y , that is, not subject to the compulsion of the 
subpoena of September 23, 2021. 
2. The Select Committee or its staff will in good faith limit the matters of inqui,y and specific 
questions to that which it believes to be outside the scope of Executive Privilege. 
3. Mr. Meadows, through counsel, relains full righl lo decline lo answer queslions that he 
believes in good faith, with the advice of counsel, would require him to answer with 
information subject to a claim of Executive Privilege.  139 
Select Collllllittee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
November 26, 2021 
Page 3 
4. The Select Commilfee will p,-ovide to Mr. Meadows 's co1111se/, at least 3 business days in 
advance of the session, a11y and all documems ii illfe11ds to show or question him about in 
the sessio11. 
5. 171e duration of the deposition , exclusive of m~)I agreed upon breaks or time ojfthe record, 
wi/11101 exceed 4 hours. 
6. The Select Committee will rime~v provide Mr. Meadows wilh The writren record of rhe 
deposition. 
Your letter asks for any such appearance to occur on November 29, 2021. For separate 
reasons as to each of us, neither Mr. Meadows nor I could appear on that date.1 In addition, that 
date, as you know, follows a traditionally long holiday weekend, and we have not received any of 
the documents that the Select Committee would like Mr. Meadows to be prepared to discuss. A 
deposition of Monday, November 29, would therefore not pennit us adequate time to prepare for 
the session. We are prepared, however, to work with your staff to identify a date soon thereafter 
for Mr. Meadows to appear as outlined above. 
As to the production of documents pursuant to the subpoena to Mr. Meadows , which you 
also raised in your letter, we are addressing that today in a separate collllllunication to the Select 
Comm.ittee. 
George J. T envilliger III 
cc: 
1 I would be happy to explain to staff orally the reasons we could uot attend on that date.  140 
47 
Exhibit 8 -Letter from Counsel to Mark 
Meadows to Chairman Thompson, Nov. 26, 2021  141 
""'"""''"oc""• McGUIREWCDDS 
November 26, 2021 
VIA EMAIL 
Honorable Bennie G. Thompson, Chaim1an 
Honorable Liz Cheney, Vice Chair 
Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol ----
Re: Subpoenas Served on Honorable Mark R. Meadows -Request for Production of 
Documems 
Dear Chair Thompson and Vice Chair Cheney: 
On behalf of our client, the Honorable Mark R. Meadows, I write in response to the 
subpoena from the Select Connnittee on Finance dated September 23, 2021, and to your letter of 
November 23, 2021. As described below, Mr. Meadows is today making au initial production of 
documents in response to the subpoena and will continue working with the Select Committee to 
complete his response in a timely fashion. This initial production includes I, 139 docwnents and 
6,836 pages. 
As previously discussed, we believe that the vast majority of the documents responsive to 
the Select Collllllittee 's subpoena are Presidential records now in the custody and control of the 
Archivist. We have nevertheless undertaken a review of Mr. Meadows 's personal devices and 
accmmts to ascertain whether there are any responsive documents that remain in his custody and 
control. Previously we committed to producin g any responsive, non-privileged document s that we 
identify. The documents included in today's production were collected from Mr. Meadows 's 
personal Gmail accmmt. 
Ad.:mu I Austin I 8.iltimon! I Owloae I Charlottes ville I Chicago I Dallas I Houston I J.xk:sonviUe I London I Los Angeles -Century City 
Los Angeles-Downiown I New York I Norfolk I Pimburgh I Ra~gh I Richmond I San Franc~o I Tysons I Washingcon, O.C.  142 
Select Committee to Investigate the January 61h Attack on the United States Capital 
November 26, 2021 -Document s 
Page 2 
This production is based on our careful review of all incoming and outgoing messages in 
Mr. Meadows personal Gmail account between the dates of November 3, 2020 to January 21, 
2021. In response to the Committee's focus on this time frame in its subpoena, the review was 
done for all emails in this entire date range instead of through application of more limited search 
terms, for instance. 
These documents are being produced in response to the Select Committee's subpoena. This 
letter and its attachments, any copies thereof, and any past or future correspondence regarding this 
matter, are not intended to waive any of Mr. Meadows 's privileges or rights. They should not be 
construed as a waiver of any privilege or right. To the extent that we have identified responsive 
documents that are nevertheless privileged, we are providing a privilege log in connection with the 
productio n that identifies the documents withheld and the nature of the privileges asserted. 
The materials included in today's production are produced in electronic format and Bates 
numbered: MM00000l through MM0\0784. The production file is password protected . We will 
provide instructions on accessing the production by separate email, and you should not hesitate to 
contact us should any issues arise. 
This production and our related correspondence may include sensitive personal 
information. We respectfully request that these materials, including this letter and our other 
correspondence with the Select Committee and its staff, be treated as confidential under the House 
Rules; that they be afforded the fullest protection available by law and policy; and that they be 
treated as confidential and exempt from disclosure beyond the Select Committee. The production 
of any privileged or otherwise protected information which is not responsive to the subpoena is 
unintentional , and we request the prompt return of any such information if identified or upon our 
request. We further request that confidential treatment be accorded to any notes, memoranda , or 
other records created by or at the direction of the Select Committee or employees that reflect, refer, 
or relate to this letter or to any portion of the enclosed productions. 
Please promptly inform me, at the address and phone number listed above, of any request 
seeking access to the document s or any of the above-men tioned records, including this letter, to 
enable us to substantiate the grounds for confidentia l treatment, unless the Select Committee 
intends to deny such request for access. At the conclusion of the Select Committee's review of the 
enclosed documents , we request that all copies be returned to me at the address above. 
In addition, we will review text messages and other potentially responsive information 
from Mr. Meadows ' personal cell phone. As of the date of this initial production, we have 
encountered technical challenges that have prevented us from reviewing these materials for 
potentially responsive documents. We have previously explained to staff that Mr. Meadows did 
not retain his cell phone after January 2021. However, some information may have been retained 
in the form of a backup data set from the phone. After our initial efforts to access that backup were 
unsuccessful, we have retained a new outside vendor to assist us in our efforts to access and review 
the material. We expect to have a more detailed update on the status of this data next week. We 
continue to use substantia l diligence to seek to obtain any potentia lly responsive material.  143 
Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capital 
November 26. 2021 -Documents 
Page 3 
If you have any questions regarding the enclosed materials or any issues relating to this 
matter, please do not hesitate to contact me. 
Sincerely yours, 
Michael Francisco• 
cc: 
• Not admitted in DC: admitted in CO. Applic:ation for admission to the: DC baT filed: working uuda the: di~t super;-ision of an 
enrolled. ac:tin member of the OC bar  144 
48 
Exhibit 9 -Letter from Chairman Thompson to 
Counsel to Mark Meadows , Nov. 28, 2021  145 
BENNI£ G. THOMPS ON, MISSISS IPPI 
CHAIRMAN 
ZOELOfGREN,CAl.lFORNIA 
AOAMB.SCHI Ff.CAl.lfOflNIA 
P£TEAGUILAA.CAUFORNIA 
STEPHANIE N, MURPHY. FLORIDA 
JAMIE RASICIN, MARVLANO 
~::~~~~~~~i~NIA 
ADAM KINZINGER. ILLINOIS @n, I.funbreb t;,u,ntt£nt4 Qiongress U.SHouNolR-m,_ 
WHh1ng1on.OC20515 
f.111u1ry6\h.houM.QOY 
(2021225--7800 
i;d,ct Qiommitt££ to .llnu,sligate 14, Januaru 614 Attack on 14, l!lnittb !;tatts Qiapltol 
Mr. George Terwilliger Ill 
McGuire Woods LLP --
Dear Mr. Terwilliger, Novembe r 28, 2021 
The Select Committee to Investigate the January 61h Attack on the United States Capitol 
("Select Committee") has received and considered the letters you sent on November 26, 2021. 
One letter addressed Mr. Meadows' potential deposition testimony, and the other addressed an 
initial production of documents and a privilege log. Separately , staff for the Select Committee 
received a link from your law firm to download Mr. Meadows's initial document production that 
same day. 
The Select Committee is working to download and process the documents Mr. Meadows 
produced and will review them as soon as practicable. As your letter indicates, that production 
includes I, 139 documents and 6,836 pages that arc responsive to the Select Committee 's 
subpoena , as well as a privilege log describing hundreds more responsive documents that Mr. 
Meadows has withheld. I understand that this is an initial production , and that you are working to 
provide additiona l responsive documents including text messages taken from a personal cell 
phone that Mr. Meadows used during the relevant timeframe. Mr. Meadows ' production and 
privilege log comes well after the original and revised dates by which he was required to produce 
documents: October 7 and November 5, respectively. Given this delay and for the reasons stated 
below, I request that you complete the remaining production expeditiously, and no later than 
Friday, December 3, 2021. 
In addition, the Select Committee is encouraged to hear that Mr. Meadows is interested in 
appearing for deposition testimony without further delay. I understand the extenuating 
circumstances for your request that we schedule the deposition for the week of Decembe r 6. I am 
willing to accommodate your request, provided that you complete production of documents from 
Mr. Meadows no later than Friday, December 3, 2021. More specifically , the Select Committee 
will convene a depositio n on Wednesday, December 8, 2021, at 10:00 a.m. The deposition will 
be conducted pursuant to H. Res. 503, section 3(b) of H. Res. 8, and the Rules of the House of 
Representatives. Specifically, Mr. Meadows will be placed under oath to answer questions posed 
by staff and Members of the Select Committee. He will answer the questions asked or 
specifically articulate a privilege or other objection to such questions. As Chairman of the Select  146 
Mr. George Terwilliger Ill 
Page 2 
Committee, I will consider and may rule upon those objections, as provided by the Rules of the 
House of Representatives. For your reference, I have enclosed the House Deposition Authority 
Regulations. 
During the deposition, counsel and Members of the Select Committee will ask questions 
of your client that are relevant to the Select Committee's investiga tion. To be clear, the Select 
Committee's view of applicable executive privilege will be consistent with the prior letters that 
we have sent to you as well as the November 11, 2021, White House letter addressed to Mr. 
Meadows. Our hope is that Mr. Meadows will answer all questions put forth during the 
deposition. If, however, the Select Committee's questions address topics which you believe are 
protected by privilege, you will state such privilege objection on the record. After the deposition 
concludes, we will have a specific record on which to base continued discussion of your 
privilege claims. 
The Select Committee hopes to limit the number of times Mr. Meadows must appear for 
testimony, but also recognizes that it might be necessary to continue the deposition to address 
issues that are not covered in this deposition, such as areas where you assert some executive­
privilege-based objection that is later resolved. At this deposition, Select Committee staff will 
raise, in good faith, all relevant topics with Mr. Meadows in order to both obtain information that 
is relevant and necessary to its inquiry and narrow the scope of questions to which Mr. Meadows 
objects. If Mr. Meadows is forthcoming and cooperative, this process may take more than four 
hours, and the Select Committee cannot agree to such a time limit. 
The Select Committee will endeavor to provide you, as counsel for Mr. Meadows, access 
to the nonpublic documents that it intends to show or question him about during the deposition 
that the Select Committee has received from sources other than your document production, 
provided that both you and Mr. Meadows agree to keep the documents confidential and not 
produce them, or otherwise disclose their contents, to any third parties. As noted above, it is 
imperative that we receive a complete production of documents from Mr. Meadows by 
December 3. This production must include, but not be limited to, production of text messages 
and other information contained in Mr. Meadows' personal cellular device(s). The Select 
Committee is also willing to provide access to the written record of the deposition upon the 
completion of the deposition pursuant to House rules. 
I trust that Mr. Meadows ' stated position indicates a willingness to cooperate with the 
Select Committee. lfso, he must complete his document productio n by Friday, December 3, 
2021, and appear for a deposition at I 0:00 a.m. on Wednesday, December 8, 2021. As was true 
in the letter that I sent dated November 22, 2021, the Select Committee will defer consideration 
of enforcement steps regarding Mr. Meadows ' non-comp liance with the Select Committee's 
September 23, 2021, subpoena pending the December 8, 2021, deposition.  147 
Mr. George Terwilliger Ill 
Page 3 
Please find the previously mentioned enclosures to this letter below. I look forward to 
your speedy reply. 
Enclosures. Sincerely, 
Bennie G. Thompson 
Chairman  148 
H. Res. 8 
In the House of Representatives, U. S., 
Ja1111ary ef, 2021. 
Resolved, 
SECTION I. ADOPTION OF THE RULES OF THE ONE HUNDRE D 
SIXTEENTH CONGRESS . 
'l'he Rules of the House of Representatives of the One 
Hundred Sixteenth Congress, including applicable provisions 
of law or concurrent resolution that constituted rules of the 
House at the end of the One Hundred Si>.icenth Congress, 
are adopted as the Rules of the House of Representatives of 
the One Hundred Seventeenth Congress, with amendments to 
the standing rules as provided in section 2, and with other 
orders as provided in this resolution. 
SEC. 2. CHANGES TO THE STANDING RULES. 
(a) CONFORMING CHANGE.-ln clause 2(i) of rule ll­
(1) strike the designation of subparagraph (l); and 
(2) strike subparagraph (2). 
(b) OFFICE 01' DIVERSITY AND INCL SION AND OFFICE 
OF 'PHI, W!·US'PLllBl,OWJm O~LBUDS.- 149 
16 
SEC. 3. SEPARATE ORDERS. 
(a) 1\'fl.~i\IBEH DAY IIE1\HINO REQUIHE i\lENT.-D11ri11g 
the first session of the One Ilundrcd Seventeenth Congress, 
each standing committee (other than the Committee on Eth­
ics) or each subcon-1111ittcc thereof (other than a subcommittee 
on oversight) shall hold a hearing at which it receives testi­
mony from i\lcmbcrs, Dclcg;:1tcs, and the Resident Commis­
sioner on proposed legislation within its jurisdictio11, except 
that the Committee on Rules ma.,· hold such hearing during 
the second session of the One Hundred Se,·enteenth Con-
gross. 
(b) OisP0Sl'l'I0N AU'l'II0HITY.-
(1) During the One Hundred Se,·enteenth Congress, 
the chair of a standing committee (other than the Com­
mittee on Rules), and the chair of the Permanent Select 
Commit.tee on Intellig·ence, upon consultation \\it,h the 
ranking minority n-icmbcr of such committee, may order 
the taking of depositions, including pui-suant to sub­
poem1, b,v a member 01· counsel of such committee. 
(2) Depositions taken under the authorit, , pre­
scl'ibcd in this subsection shall be subject to i-cgulations 
issued b.v the chair of the Committee on Rules and print­
ed in the Congressional Record. 
(c) WAil Pow1ms RES0l,UTI0:si.-D,win g the One Ilun­
cfred Seventeenth Congress, a motion to discharge a measure 
introduecd pursuant to section 6 or section 7 of the War 
•HRES 8 EH  150 
"'='.{} 
January 4, 2021 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-HOUSE H41 
health, safety, and well-betng or others 
present tn the Chamber aod surrounding 
areas. Members &nd st.a.ff wtll not be per­
mitted. to enter the Hall or the House wtth­
out weartng a mask. Masks wm be available 
at the entry points ror any Member who for­
gets t.o brlng one. Tbe Cbatr views the failure 
to wear a mask as a sertous breach or deco­
rum. The 8ergeant,..at,..Arm.S ls directed. t.o en­
force tbts policy. Ba.sea upon tbe bealtb and 
safety guidance rrom the attending physi­
cian and the sergeant..-at-Arms, the Chair 
would rurther advtse that all Members 
sbould lea.ve the Chamber promptly after 
casting tbelr votes. Furthermore, Members 
sbould avoid congregating In the rooms lead­
Ing to the Chamber, Including the Speaker's 
lobby. The Chair wtll continue the practice 
or provldtng small groups or Members with a 
minimum of 5 minutes wttbtn whlcb to ca.st 
their votes. Members are encouraged t.o vote 
with thetr previously assigned group. Arter 
vottng, Members must clear the Chamber to 
allow the ne:rt groul) a sare an(I surncient op­
l)Ortuntty to vote. tt ts essenttal ror the 
health au(I safety of Members, staff, an(I the 
U.S. capitol Police to consistently practice 
social Glst.anclng anG to ensure that a safe 
cal)ll,city be maintained in the Chamber at 
all ttmes. To th.a.t end. the Chair appreciates 
the cooperation or Members and staff In pre­
servtng order anG decorum In the Chamber 
and In displaying respect anG sarety ror one 
another by weartng a mask and l)r&ettclng 
social distancing. All announcea policies, In­
cluding those addressing decorum In debate 
and the conduct or votes by electronic de­
vice. shall be carried out in harmony w1th 
this policy (luring the 1)9Ddency or a covered 
period. 
117TH CONGRESS REGULATIONS 
FOR USE OF DEPOSrrION AU­
THORITY 
OOMMJTJ'EE ON RULES, 
HOUSE OP REPRESENTATIVES. 
Wa.,hlngton,DC,Januari,4,2021. 
Hon. NANCY PElo81, 
Speaker, House of Repfesentatfoot, 
Wa.,htngton. DC. 
MADAM SP!:AKER: Pursuant to section S(b) 
of House Resolution 8, 117th CODIIT&SS, I hem.­
by submit tbe following regulations regard­
Ing the conduct or deposltlons by committee 
and select committee counsel for pr1nttng 1n 
the congressional Record. 
Stncerely, 
JAMES P. MCOOVERN, 
Chairman, Commlllee on Rule.s. 
ROOULA.TIONS P'OR THE U81t OP DEPOSlTION 
AU'fflORITY 
1. Notices ror the taking or !Seposlttons 
shall specify the date. time, anG plac.e or ex­
amination. Depositions shall be taken under 
oath administered by a member or a person 
otherwise authorized to administer oaths. 
Depositions may conttnne rrom (lay to clay. 
2. consultation w1tb the ranking minority 
member shall tnctu!Se three (lays' notice be­
fore any deposttton Is taken. All members or 
the committee sbal.l also receive three clays 
written notice that a deposition wm be 
taken, except ln elllgent circumstances. For 
purposes or these procedures, a day shall not 
Include saturd.a,Ys. Sundays, or legal boll­
!Says except when the House Is tn session on 
such a day. 
3. Witnesses may be acoompanl0d at a dep­
osition by personal, nongovernmental coun­
sel to advtse them or their rights. Only mem­
bers, committee staff designated by the 
Chair or ranktng minority member, an orn­
clal reporter, the witness, and the Wltness·a 
counsel are 1)9rmltted to attend. Observers 
or counsel ror other persons, 1nclud1ng coun­
sel ror government agencies. may not atten!S. 4. The chalr or the committee noticing the 
deposition may dealgnate that deposition as 
1)11,rt or a Joint Investigation between com­
mittees. an(I In that case, provt(le notice to 
the members or the committee s. u such a 
Geslgnatlon ts matte, the chair and ranking 
minority member or the add!Uonal com­
mlttee(s) may destgnate committee start t.o 
attend pursuant to regulation 3. Members 
an(I destgnated stafr or the committees may 
attend and ask questions as set forth below. 
5. A deposition shall be conducted by any 
member or committee counsel deslgnated by 
the chair or ranking minority member or the 
Committee that notlcea the de[)()Sitlon. 
When Geposlttons are conducted by com­
mittee counsel. there shall be no more than 
two committee counsel permitted to ques­
tion a w1tness per round. one or the com­
mittee counsel shall be designated by the 
chalr and the other by the ranking minority 
member per round. 
6. De[)()Sltlon questions shall be pro­
pounded. in rounds. The length or each roun!S 
shall not exceed. 60 minutes per side, an(I 
shall provide eQual tlme to the majority an(I 
the minority. In each round, the member(s) 
or committee counsel destgnated by the 
chair shall ask questions nrst, an(I the mem­
ber(&) or committee counsel destgnatea. by 
the ranktng minority member shall ask 
questions secon!S. 
7. Objections must be stated concisely an!S 
In a non-argumentative an!S non-suggestive 
manner. A witness·s counsel may not tn­
struct a witness to ref'Use to answer a ques­
tion, Hcept to preserve a prlvllege. In the 
event or professional, ethical, or other mis­
conduct by the witness's counsel during the 
deposition. the committee ma.y take any ap­
propriate dlsctpltnary action. The witness 
may reruse t.o answer a quesuon only t-o pm.­
serve a l)rlvllege. When the witness bas re­
f'Used to answer a question to preserve a 
prlvllege, members or staff may (1) proceed 
w1th the de[)()Sltlon, or (11) either at that 
time or at a subsequent time, seek a ruling 
from the Chair either by telephone or otber­
w1se. u the Chair overrules any such ob!&C­
tton an(I thereby orders a witness to answer 
any question to whtcb an objection was 
J011ged, the witness shall be ordered to an­
swer. Ha member of the committee chooses 
to appeal the ruling or the ch.a.Ir. such appeal 
must be made within three clays, In writing, 
and shall be preserved ror committee consid­
eration. The committee's ruling on appeal 
sball be nled wtth the clerk or the com­
mittee and shall be provided to the members 
and w1tness no less than three days before 
the reconvened de[)()Sltlon. A deponent who 
reruses t.o answer a question after being di­
rected to answer by the chair may be subject 
to sanction, except that no sanctions may be 
Imposed If the ruling or the chair ts reversed 
by the committee on appeal. 
8. The committee chair shall ensure that 
the testimony Is either transcribed or elec­
tronically recorO.oo or bOtb. Ir a witness·s 
testimony Is transcribed, the witness or the 
witness's counsel shall be afforded an oppor­
tunity to revtew a copy. No later than nve 
(lays after the witness bas been notlned or 
the Ol)P0ttunlty to review the transcript, the 
w1tness may submlt suggested changes to 
the cbatr. Committee staff may ma.ke any 
typographical and technical changes. Sub­
stantive changes, mocUncattons. clartne&­
tions, or amendments to the deposition tran­
script submitted by the wttness must be ac-­
compa.nted by a Jetter signed by the witness 
requesting the changes and a statement or 
the witness's reasons ror ea.ob proposed 
change. Any substantive changes, modlnca­
tlons, clarlncattons , or amendments shall be 
Included as an appendtx to the transcript 
conditio ned upon the w1tness signing the 
transcrll)t. 9. TIie 1nd1vldual atlmlnlsterlng the oath, tr 
other than a member, shall oerttty on the 
tranacr1pt that the wltnesa was duly sworn. 
The transcriber shall certify that the tran­
script Is a true record or the testimony , and 
tbe transcript shall be moo, together with 
any electronic recol'111ng, wttb the clerk or 
the commlttee tn Washington, DC. Depost­
ttons shall be constdefOO to have been taken 
In Washlngton, DC, as well as the location 
actually taken once moo there w1th the 
clerk or the committee ror the committee's 
use. The chair an!S the ranking minority 
member shall be provtded. with a CODY or the 
transcr11)t.s or the deposition at the same 
time. 
10. The chair anG ranking minority mem­
ber shall consult regarO.tng tbe release of 
deposition testimony. transcripts , or record­
lng-s, anG portions thereof. U either objects 
tn writing to a proposed release or a deposi­
tion testimony, transcript, or recording, or a 
portion thereof. the matter shall be proml)t.­
Jy niferred to the committee ror resolution. 
11. A witness shall not be required to tes­
tify unless the witness bas been provlded 
with a copy or section S(b) or H. Res. 8, 117th 
Congress, and these regulations. 
REMOTE COMMITl'EE PRO-
CEEDlliGS REGULATIONS PURSU• 
ANT TO HOUSE RESOLUTION 8, 
117TH CONGRESS 
00MMJTTKE ON RULES, 
Houu: OP REPREBENTATIVE8. 
Wa.,hln"ton ,DC,Janua1111,202l. 
Hon. NANCY PELOSI. 
s,,eoker, House of Repfe&entattve.s, 
Wa..thtngton, DC. 
MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to section S(S) 
of House Resolution 8, 111th congress, I hem.­
by submit the rollow1ng regulations n,gard­
lng remote committee proceedtnga for print.­
Ing In the OONORESSIONAL RIWORD. 
Stncerely, 
JA.ME8 P. MCO<>VERN, 
Chalnnon, 
comtnltlee on Rule.s. 
REMaI'E COMMJTJ'EE PR0cEEDIN08 R!coULA.­
TIONB PtlRBUANT TO HOUB.E RESOLUTION 8 
A. PRE8~CE AND VOTINO 
1. Members participating remotely In a 
committee prooeed.lng must be visible ou the 
sort.ware platform's vl!Seo f'llnction to be con­
stdel'OO. In attendance and to parttcll)ll,te un­
less connectlvtty Issues or other technical 
problems render the member unable to CUiiy 
participate on camera (e:itcept as provl(led In 
regulations A.2 and A.3). 
2. The exception In regulation A.I ror 
connectivity Issues or other technical prob­
lems Goes not apply tr a point or order bas 
been made that a quorum ts not present. 
Members 1)11,rtlcll)ll,tlng t11motely must be 
vtalble on the sort.ware l)latrorm·s video f'llnO­
tion In order to be counted ror the purpose or 
establishing a quorum. 
3. The e:itceptton In regulation A.I ror 
connectiv ity lssnes or other technical prob­
lems does not apply (luring a vote. Members 
partlcll)ll,tlng remotely must be vtslble on 
the software platrorm· s vtdeo runctlon ln 
orO.ertovote. 
4. Members participating remotely oU­
camera due to connectlvlty Issues or other 
technica1 problems pursuant to regulation 
A.I must Inform committee majority and 
minority staff either Glrectly or through 
staff. 
6. The chair shall ma.ke a gOOd. !a.Ith effort 
to provlde every member elll)8rlenclng 
connectivity Issues an opponunlty t.o par­
ticipate nilly In the proceedings, subject t.o 
regulations A.2 and A.3.  151 
49 
Exhibit 10 -Letter from Counsel to Mark 
Meadows to Chairman Thompson , Dec. 3, 2021  152 
Mid,,df,aoco,o McGUIREWCDDS 
December 3, 2021 
VIA EMAIL 
Honorable Bennie G. Thompson, Chaim1an 
Honorable Liz Cheney, Vice Chair 
Select Committee to Investigate the Januru.y 6th Attack on the United States Capitol ----
Re: Subpoenas Served 011 Houorable Mark R. Meadows-Request/or Production of 
Documems 
Dear Chair Thompson and Vice Chair Cheney: 
On behalf of our client, the Honorable Mark R. Meadows , I write in response to the 
subpoena from the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States 
Capitol dated September 23, 2021, and to your lener of November 23, 2021. As described below, 
Mr. Meadows is today making a continuing production of doc1m1ents in response to the subpoena. 
This production includes 2,319 documents and 2,514 pages. For text messages withheld as 
privileged, there are 38 text message threads with attorney-client privilege and 23 text message 
threads with executive privilege. 
Previously we committed to producin g any responsive, non-privileged document s that we 
identify. Tue document s included in today's production were collected pl11llarily from backup data 
from Mr. Meadows's personal devices. As we have previously explained, Mr. Meadows no longer 
has his personal cell phone available to him; this production is based on all remainin g available 
data from that device. 
Adanu I Austin I Baltimore I Owloae I Charlottes ville I Chicago I Dallli I Housion I J.xk:sonville I London I Los Angeles -Century City 
Los AnS"les- Down1awn I New York I Norfolk I Pimburgh I R.lleigh I Richmond I San Franc~o I Tysons I Washingcon , D.C.  153 
Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
December 3, 2021 -Documents 
Page 2 
This production is based on our careful review of all incoming and outgoing text messages 
in Mr. Meadows 's custody or control between the dates of November 3, 2020 to January 21, 2021 
as well as any available attachments or other identifiable documents from Mr. Meadows 's personal 
computer. In response to the Select Committee's focus on this time frame in its subpoena, the 
review was done for all text messages in this entire date range instead of through application of 
more limited search terms, for instance. 
These documents are being produced in response to the Select Committee's subpoena. This 
letter and its attachments, any copies thereof, and any past or future correspondence regarding this 
matter, are not intended to waive any of Mr. Meadows's privileges or rights. They should not be 
construed as a waiver of any privilege or right. To the extent that we have identified responsive 
documents that are nevertheless privileged, we are providing a privilege log in connection with the 
productio n that identifies the documents withheld and the nature of the privileges asserted. 
The materials included in today's production are produced in electronic format and Bates 
numbered: MM010785 through MM0\5356. The production file is password protected. We will 
provide instructions on accessing the production by separate email, and you should not hesitate to 
contact us should any issues arise. 
Today Mr. Meadows is also producing some non-privileged , responsive emails and 
attachments that were recovered from his personal computer. Most communications recovered 
from this device were associated with his personal email account. Thus, we have previously 
reviewed for responsiveness and privilege and produced appropriate communications to the 
Select Committee. Any responsive, nonprivileged documents not previously reviewed are being 
produced today. This production includes 20 document s in 42 pages. 
As with the initial production , this production and our related correspondence may include 
sensitive personal information. We respectfully request that these materials , including this letter 
and our other correspondence with the Select Committee and its staff, be treated as confidential 
under the House Rules; that they be afforded the fullest protection available by law and policy; 
and that they be treated as confidential and exempt from disclosure beyond the Select Committee. 
The production of any privileged or otherwise protected information which is not responsive to 
the subpoena is unintentional, and we request the prompt return of any such information if 
identified or upon our request. We further request that confidentia l treatment be accorded to any 
notes, memoranda , or other records created by or at the direction of the Select Committee or 
employees that reflect, refer, or relate to this letter or to any portion of the enclosed productions. 
Please promptly inform me, at the address and phone number listed above, of any request 
seeking access to the document s or any of the above-mentioned records, including this letter, to 
enable us to substantiate the grounds for confident ial treatment , unless the Select Committee 
intends to deny such request for access. At the conclusion of the Select Committee's review of the 
enclosed documents, we request that all copies be returned to me at the address above.  154 
Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
December 3, 2021 -Documents 
Page 3 
If you have any questions regarding the enclosed materials or any issues relating to this 
matter, please do not hesitate to contact me. 
Sincerely yours, 
4AJ=+:..-·~ 
Michael Francisco• 
cc: 
• Not admitted in DC: admitted in CO. Applic:ation for admission to the: DC bar filed: working uuda-the: dfflt supc:r,-ision of an 
enrolled. ac:tive member of the DC bar  155 
50 
Exhibit 11 -Letter from Counsel to Mark 
Meadows to Chairman Thompson , Dec. 7, 2021  156 
M(GuirtWoods llP iii 
December 7, 2021 
VIA EMAIL 
Honorable Bellllle G. Thompson, Chainnan 
Honorable Liz Cheney, Vice Chair 
Select Connni"ee to Investigate the January 6th A"ack on the United States Capitol --Re: Subpoena s Served on Honorable Mark R. Meadows 
Dear Chair Thompson and Vice Chair Cheney: 
Over the last several weeks, Mr. Meadows has consistently sought in good faith to pursue 
an accommodation with the Select Committee and up until yesterday we believed that could be 
obtained. We acted on the belief that the Select Committee would receive, also in good faith, 
relevant, responsive but non-privileged facts. We have consistentl y communicated to the Select 
Committee that Mr. Meadows is precluded from making a unilateral decision to waive Executive 
Privilege claims asse11ed by the former president. 
We agreed to provide thousands of pages of responsive document s and Mr. Meadows was 
willing to appear voluntarily, not 1mder compulsion of the Select Committee's subpoena to him, 
for a deposition to answer questions about non-privileged matters. Now actions by the Select 
Committee have made such an appearance untenable . In sh011, we now have every indication from 
the information supplied to us last Friday -upon which Mr. Meadows could expect to be 
questioned -that the Select Committee has no intention of respecting b01mdaries conceming 
Executive Privilege. In addition, we learned over the weekend that the Select Committee had, 
without even the basic courtesy of notice to us, issued wide ranging subpoenas for infonnation 
from a third patty communications provider without regard to either the broad breadth of the 
information sought, which would include intensely personal comm1mications ofno moment to any 
legitimate matters of interest to the Select Committee , nor to the potentially privileged status of 
the information demanded. Moreover , Mr. Chainnan , your recent comments in regard to another 
Atlanta. I Austin I Baltimore I Charloue t Owlottes vill@ I Chia.go I Dallas I Houston I Jxksonvill@ I London I Los Angeles-Cen!ury City 
las Angeles· Downtown I Nf!w York I Norfolk I Pittsburgh I Ral@igh J Ri<:hmond IS.in Franc:&O I T~ I W3$hington , D.C.  157 
Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
December 7, 2021 
Page 2 
witness that his assertion of 5th Amendment rights before the Select Committee is tantamount to 
an admission of guilt calls into question for us what we had hoped would be the Select Committee 's 
collllllitment to fundamental fairness in dealing with witnesses. 
As a result of careful and deliberate consideration of these factors, we now must decline 
the oppmiunity to appear vohmtarily for a deposition. It is well-established that Congress's 
subpoena authority is limited to the pursuit of a legitimate legislative pmpose. Congress has no 
authority to conduct law enforcement investigations or free-standing "fact finding" missions. Even 
where there is a legislative purpose, requests that implicate the Separation of Powers by targeting 
cunent or former Executive officials must be narrowly tailored. Yet again, with the breadth of its 
subpoenas and its pugnacious approach , the Select Committee has made clear that it does not 
intend to respect these important constitutional limits. 
Mr. Meadows proudly served as Chief of Staff to President Trump and in that role assumed 
responsibility to protect Executive Privilege during and after his tenure. He assumed that 
responsibility not for his own benefit but for the benefit of all those who will serve after him, 
including future presidents. His appreciation for our constituti onal system and for the Separation 
of Powers dictates that he cannot voluntarily appear under these circumstances. Nonetheless , as 
we have before, we reiterate our willingness to consider an interrogatory process of Select 
Committee written questions and answers from Mr. Meadows so that there might be both an 
orderly process and a clear record of questions and related assertions of privilege where 
appropriate. 
George J. Terwilliger ill 
cc:  158 
51 
Exhibit 12 -Letter from Chairman Thompson to 
Counsel to Mark Meadows, Dec. 7, 2021  159 
(l)n, :!llunbrrb i,,urntttnt4 (![ongrrss U.SHouNo!Rep....,,,a1,­
WHhongton.DC20515 
)lnuary61hJ,ouM.go,, 
(1021225-7IIOO 
i,t1,ct (![ommitttt to .llnu,stigat, 14, ;Jlanuaru 614 Attack on 14, lllnitrb l,tatts (![apitol 
Mr. George Terwilliger Ill 
McGuire Woods LLP -· Dear Mr. Terwilliger: December 7, 2021 
The Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
("Select Committee") is in receipt of your letter dated December 7, 2021, regarding your client, 
Mr. Mark Meadows. Your letter confirms that, despite our prior efforts to facilitate a deposition 
for Mr. Meadows, he does not intend to cooperate with the Select Committee. 
As you no doubt recall, on November 22, 2021, I sent you a letter which explained to you 
that Mr. Meadows had wholly failed to comply with the subpoena that the Select Committee issued 
to him on September 23, 2021, and offered him, in good faith, a course of action that would cure 
his previous non-compliance. That course required Mr. Meadows to produce documents and 
appear for a deposition. 
Mr. Meadows has produced documents. On November 26, 2021, Mr. Meadows provided 
to the Select Committee certain documents that you obtained from Mr. Mcadows's personal email 
account and determined were responsive to the Select Committee's subpoena. In doing so, you 
also provided a privilege log indicating that you withheld several hundred additional documents 
from Mr. Meadows's personal email account based on claims of executive, attorney-cl ient, or other 
privilege. Despite your very broad claims of privilege, Mr. Meadows has also produced documents 
that you apparently agree are relevant and not protected by any privilege at all. Those documents 
include: a November 7, 2020, email discussing the appointment of alternate slates of electors as 
part of a "direct and collateral attack" after the election; a January 5, 2021, email regarding a 38-
page PowerPoint briefing titled "Election Fraud, Foreign Interference & Options for 6 JAN" that 
was to be provided "on the hill"; and, among others, a January 5, 2021, email about having the 
National Guard on standby. 
Then, on December 3, 2021, you provided to the Select Committee certain relevant 
messages that you obtained from saved and backed up phone data from Mr. Meadows's personal 
cell phone. According to representations made to us, Mr. Meadows reportedly turned in this 
personal device to his cell phone provider in the weeks following January 6, 2021. You also 
produced a privilege log indicating that you withheld over 1,000 text messages from Mr. 
Meadows's personal cell phone based on similarly broad claims of executive , attorney-clien t, and 
other privileges. The text messages you did produce include a November 6, 2020, text exchange  160 
Mr. George Terwilliger Ill 
Page 2 
with a Member of Congress apparently about appointing alternate electors in certain states as part 
of a plan that the Member acknowledged would be "highly controversial" and to which Mr. 
Meadows apparently said, "I love it"; an early January 2021 text message exchange between Mr. 
Meadows and an organizer of the January 6th rally on the Ellipse; and text messages about the 
need for the former President to issue a public statement that could have stopped the January 6th 
attack on the Capitol. 
All of those documents raise issues about which the Select Committee would like to 
question Mr. Meadows and about which you appear to agree are not subject to a claim of privilege. 
Yet, despite your recent agreement to have Mr. Meadows to come in and answer questions in a 
deposition, Mr. Meadows now, once again, refuses to do so. In your December 7, 2021, letter, you 
specifically indicated that Mr. Meadows's refusal to appear is motivated by, among other things, 
the documents that Select Committee staff provided to you in advance, pursuant to your request 
for an accommodat ion. You go on to suggest that those documents somehow indicate that the 
"Select Committee has no intention of respecting boundaries concerning Executive Privilege." 
That assertion runs counter to the stated purpose of the December 8, 2021, deposition, which was 
to give Mr. Meadows a chance to answer the Select Committee's questions or assert and articulate 
a specific privilege he believes protects that information from disclosure. 
Indeed, the Select Committee has tried repeatedly to identify with specificity the areas of 
inquiry that Mr. Meadows believes are protected by a claim of executive privilege, but neither you 
nor Mr. Meadows has meaningfully provided that information. As a result, and as I have said 
numerous times, the Select Committee planned to ask Mr. Meadows questions during a deposition 
that are relevant to the investigation, while giving Mr. Meadows the opportunity to answer those 
questions or assert a claim of privilege on a question-by -question basis. That is not a lack of respect 
for the boundaries of executive privilege but rather an appreciation for the proper process for 
asserting any protective privilege. 
It is also worth noting that your identification of executive privilege issues with documents 
that came from Mr. Meadows' personal email account and personal cell phone raises the question 
of whether these materials have been transferred to the National Archives in compliance with the 
Presidential Records Act. 
In your December 7, 2021, letter, you also cite "wide ranging subpoenas for information 
from a third party communications provider" that the Select Committee has issued "without regard 
to either the breadth of the informati on sought . . nor to the potentially privileged status of the 
information demanded." I assume that this representation refers to the Select Committee's 
compulsion of call data records regarding particular cellular telephone numbers. Contrary to your 
assertion, that information does not implicate privilege, but rather concerns the date, time, and 
dialing information about calls and messages sent or received by the specific phone numbers 
indicated on the subpoena. Moreover, production of that information does not impact Mr. 
Meadows's production of document s and text messages, which are the areas we seek to develop 
during his deposition tomorrow. 
Finally, you reference news accounts regarding another witness's "assertion of 5th 
Amendment rights before the Select Committee" and claim that my comments suggest that a  161 
Æ Mr. George Terwilliger Ill 
Page 3 
witness's assertion of 5th Amendment rights is "tantamou nt to an admission of guilt." That is not 
an accurate characte rization of my position on the 5th Amendment, nor is that interpretation of my 
comments consistent with our discussio ns about the purpose of tomorrow's deposition -i.e., a 
proceeding in which your client can assert privilege claims with sufficient particularity for further 
consideration. The Select Committee is trying to ascertain facts that place the January 6th attack 
on the Capitol in context, not conduct a law enforcement inquiry. If you appear, the Select 
Committee would consider and evaluate your assertion of any privilege. Your failure to do so 
prevents that evaluation, which brings us once again to a consideration of enforcement options. 
This occurs at the same time Mr. Meadows has published a book in which he discusses the January 
6th attack. That he would sell his telling of the facts of that day while denying a congressiona l 
committee the opportunity to ask him about the attack on our Capitol marks an historic and 
aggressive defiance of Congress . 
In summary, on November 12, 2021, Mr. Meadows failed to appear for the deposition 
required by the Select Committee's subpoena. On November 22, 2021, the Select Committee gave 
Mr. Meadows an opportunity to cure his non-compliance by appearing for a deposition, which was 
ultimately scheduled for December 8, 2021. Now, the day before the deposition, Mr. Meadows 
has rejected the opportunity to cure his non-compliance and made it clear that he does not intend 
to participate in a deposition. There is no legitimate legal basis for Mr. Meadows to refuse to 
cooperate with the Select Committee and answer questions about the documents he produced, the 
personal devices and accounts he used, the events he wrote about in his newly released book, 1 and, 
among other things, his other public statemen ts. The Select Committee is left with no choice but 
to advance contempt proceedings and recommend that the body in which Mr. Meadows once 
served refer him for criminal prosecution. 
Sincerely, 
Bennie G. Thompson 
Chairman 
1 See Mark Meadows, Tl IE CHIEF'S CHIEF (2021) (released December 7, 2021). 