Shawn Still 
From: 
Sent: 
To: 
Subject: Shawn Still 
Sunday, December 13, 2020 7:57 PM 
Dana Pagan 
Fwd: Information on Duties of Presidential Electors -Monday, December 14th 
From: Robert Sinners <rsinners@donaldtrump .com> 
Sent: Sunday, December 13, 2020 5:32:12 PM 
Cc: Stewart Bragg <stewart@gagop.org> 
Subject: Information on Duties of President ial Electors -Monday, December 14th 
Good evening, 
Thank you for agreeing to serve as a Republican Elector or Alternate on Monday, December 14th at the State 
Capitol in Atlanta. 
First, I must ask for your complete discretion in this process. Your duties are imperative to ensure the end 
result -a win in Georgia for President Trump -but will be hampered unless we have complete secrecy and 
discretion. 
Our slate of Electors and Alternates will be meeting at Room 216 at the Georgia State Capitol no later than 
11:30am . I will be on site by 10:30am. Please let me know if you will not be able to perform your duties. When 
you arrive, please state to the guards that you are attending a meeting with either Senator Brandon Beach or 
Senator Burt Jones and proceed directly to the room. Please, at no point should you mention anything to do 
with Presidential Electors or speak to media. 
Once our delegation is assembled, we will begin the process, no earlier than noon. I anticipate the proceedings 
to be complete by 2pm if not earlier. 
I can be reached at 
accessing the Capitol. 
Thank you, 
Robert A. Sinners 
Georgia State EDO Director 
Donald J. Trump for President 
RSinners@DonaldTrump.com Please do not hesitate to reach out should you encounter any issues 
Election Incident Hotline: 470-410-8793 
CONFIDENT IALITY NOTICE: This message (including any attachments) may contain confidential, proprietary, privileged, 
and/or private information. This information is intended to be for the use of the individual(s) designated above. If you 
are not the intended recipient of this message, please notify the sender immediately, and delete the message and any 
attachments . Any disclosure, reproduction, distribution, or other use of this message or any attachments by an • 
individual or entity other than the intended recipient is prohibited. Copyright and any other intellectual property rights 
are the sole property of Donald J. Trump for President, Inc. 
1 
Document ID: 108755.0001 000009 