Congressional Testimony 
Nicholas Fuentes, the Groypers, and January 6, 2021 
Oren Segal, Marilyn Mayo, and Morgan Moon, ADL Center on Extremism 
ADL (Anti-Defamation League) 
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE JANUARY 6™ ATTACK ON THE 
UNITED STATES CAPITOL 
Washington, DC 
March 31, 2022 
Working to stop the defamation of the Jewish people and to secure 
Justice and fair treatment to all since 1913  INTRODUCTION 
Since 1913, the mission of ADL (the Anti-Defamation League) has been to "stop the defamation of the 
Jewish people and to secure justice and fair treatment to all." For decades, one of the most important 
ways in which ADL has fought against bigotry and antisemitism has been by investigating extremist 
threats across the ideological spectrum, including white supremacists and other far-right violent 
extremists, producing research to inform the public of the scope of the threat, and working with law 
enforcement, educators, the tech industry and elected leaders to promote best practices that can effectively 
address and counter these threats. 
As ADL has said time and time again, extremists must be taken at their word. Anyone who has been 
paying attention to extremist activity across the country, or to the chorus of disinformation and hatred 
rampant across right-wing media --and a great deal of social media more generally --will tell you that 
what happened at the U.S. Capitol on January 6th was in some ways the most predictable outbreak of 
political violence in American history. 
But the insurrectionists at the Capitol are by no means our nation's only concern when it comes to 
domestic extremism. Without a doubt, right-wing extremist violence is currently the greatest threat to 
everyone in this country. From Charleston to Charlottesville to Pittsburgh, to Poway and El Paso, we 
have seen the deadly consequences of white supremacist extremism play out all over this country. We 
cannot afford to minimize this threat. We need a bipartisan "whole of government approach" -indeed, a 
"whole of society" approach -to counter it, and the work must start today. 
This written testimony, provided to the Select Committee for their investigation, will explore a facet of 
one of the extremist movements present at the United States Capitol on January 6, 2021, the Groypers led 
by Nick Fuentes. The testimony will further demonstrate how the Groyper movement's involvement in 
the Capitol insurrection is part of a broader trend of right-wing extremist movements who attempt to 
justify their hate under the guise of "political activism." Unless thoughtful, coordinated, and 
comprehensive action is taken by policymakers and practitioners, Nick Fuentes and the Groypers-and 
individuals, groups, and movements sympathetic to them-will continue to normalize and mainstream 
hateful ideology antithetical to our democratic society. 
January 6, 2021 
On Wednesday, January 6, 2021, pro-Trump extremists, including a broad coalition of right-wing 
extremists, descended on Washington, D.C., and stormed the U.S. Capitol in an extraordinary display of 
political violence. That violence, aimed at overturning a valid and legitimate presidential election and 
explicitly targeting both Democratic and Republican officeholders with threats of physical violence as 
they performed their duties that day, left 150 officers injured, including some severely, and resulted in 5 
deaths. That Wednesday afternoon, the Capitol was under siege by those who had taken over the building, 
photographing themselves in the House chamber and trapping members of Congress and staffers. The 
President's tweets and those of many of his supporters incited this violence, which included the death of a 
pro-Trump extremist who was shot inside the Capitol. 
As the chaos unfolded, President Trump tweeted his support for the rioters: "These are the things and 
events that happen when a sacred landslide election victory is so unceremoniously & viciously stripped 
away from great patriots who have been badly & unfairly treated for so long. Go home with love & in 
peace. Remember this day forever!" The tweet was later deleted by Twitter, and the President's account 
was permanently suspended. 
1  Earlier in the day, D.C. Metropolitan Police discovered and successfully detonated two homemade bombs 
which were placed near the buildings housing the offices of the Democratic and Republican National 
Committees. 
Following weeks of increasingly incendiary online commentary, the far-right, violence-prone Proud Boys 
were in D.C. en masse Tuesday night and Wednesday, shouting obscenities directed at Antifa, Black 
Lives Matter, and the police. Multiple fights involving members have been captured on video. On 
Wednesday afternoon, Proud Boys' "Uncensored" Telegram channel showed members breaching security 
at the U.S. Capitol and engaging in fistfights with Capitol Police. 
Rising Tensions 
One year before the January 6, 2021 siege on the U.S. Capitol building, more than 20,000 mostly armed 
people gathered 97 miles away outside the Virginia State Capitol in Richmond for the Virginia Citizen 
Defense League's (VCDL) Lobby Day. The event held on January 20, 2020, allowed protesters to express 
their anger over newly-elected Virginia Democrats' reported plans to pursue stricter gun control 
legislation. Celebrated at the time for being a peaceful event, one year later the 2020 Lobby Day is better 
understood as a harbinger of what was to come -including the January 6, 2021 assault on the U.S. 
Capitol. 
As AD L's Center on Extremism analysts noted at the time, the Richmond rally provided a prototype for a 
violent year, culminating in the ongoing efforts to intimidate lawmakers into overriding the results of an 
election. Like so many of the extremist-related events of 2020, Lobby Day was preceded by supporters 
spreading conspiracies designed to sow anger and expressing violent rhetoric against their perceived 
enemies. It was attended by armed protesters who referred to elected officials as tyrants and made threats 
against them. It created a space for extremists and non-extremists to mix and demonstrated the right's 
current playbook and response to violence: portraying themselves as victims. 
Nick Fuentes and the Groypers: Background 
Nicholas Fuentes is a white supremacist leader and organizer and podcaster who seeks to forge a 
white nationalist alternative to the mainstream GOP. 
Fuentes first gained widespread notoriety in 2017 when he left Boston University after he reported 
receiving "threats" following his attendance at the white supremacist "Unite the Right" rally in 
Charlottesville, Virginia. 
He has since become a prominent white supremacist pundit and organizer. In 201 7, Fuentes began hosting 
his Livestream show "America First with Nicholas J. Fuentes," which attracted a cult-like following. 
Fuentes refers to these supporters as "Groypers" or the "GroyPer Army," who see their bigoted views as 
necessary to preserve white, European-American identity and culture. They believe that the mainstream 
conservative movement is just as responsible as liberals and the left for destroying white America and that 
Groypers are the true future of the conservative movement. 
Fuentes seeks to carve out a space that deliberately and publicly challenges the mainstream conservative 
movement while doubling down on themes central to the white supremacist movement. Fuentes and his 
America First adherents vocally support the closure of the U.S. borders to immigrants, while opposing 
"liberal" values such as feminism and LGBTQ+ rights. Fuentes views these societal changes as the 
"bastardized Jewish subversion of the American creed. The Founders never intended for America to be a 
refugee camp for nonwhite people." He often uses his platform to further conspiracy theories about the 
impending destruction of the white race, also known as "white genocide." In one tweet, Fuentes stated, 
2  "Our civilization is being dismantled, our people are being genocided [sic], and conservatives can't think 
past what will play well with liberal media in the next election." 
His podcast, "America First," was initially inspired by the speeches and platform of former President 
Donald Trump. However, Fuentes later adopted the term for his purposes after distancing himself from 
the Republican Party platform to attract young conservatives. Fuentes and his followers angrily objected 
to the Trump Administration's embrace oflsrael, as well as mainstream conservatives' support for 
"globalism," (a right-wing slur/theory about a cabal of elites who are controlling the world), "endless 
wars" and other issues they felt ran counter to a truly "America First" agenda. 
To further distance himself from the mainstream GOP, Fuentes founded the America First Political 
Action Conference (AFPAC) in 2020. AFPAC ostensibly serves as a counterweight to the annual CPAC 
event held at the same time, which is largely attended by mainstream conservative activists and elected 
officials. In 2021, AFPAC featured a variety of far-right pundits, including Michelle Malkin and Steve 
King, along with white supremacists like Vincent James Foxx of the Red Elephant. Speakers expressed 
contempt for the Republican Party, describing members as sell-outs willing to betray their constituents. 
Ideology 
Nick Fuentes and the Groypers often present themselves as Christian conservatives. In actuality, the so­
called "GroyPer Army" (the term "Groyper" is explained below) is made up of white supremacists and 
bigots who present their ideology in more nuanced terminology than other groups in the white 
supremacist sphere. While the Groypers' views align with those held by the white supremacist alt-right, 
Groypers attempt to normalize their ideology by aligning themselves with "Christianity" and "traditional" 
values championed by the church, including marriage and family. 
Fuentes and his followers chose the "GroyPer" meme to represent their ideology sometime in 2019. The 
meme emerged online in 2017, showing up on various platforms including the anonymous imageboard 
4chan. This was during the height of Pepe the Frog's popularity among the alt-right, and "Groyper" was 
a variation of Pepe the Frog, depicting the character resting his chin on interlinked hands. The Groyper 
meme was quickly adopted by people connected with the alt-right, who added Groyper-related images to 
their Twitter handles and profile pictures. 
Like many other right-wing extremists, Fuentes often "covers" his bigoted beliefs in sarcasm and ironic 
humor; he uses cartoonish memes and ''just joking" banter, all while spreading white supremacist 
propaganda. Fuentes often uses terms like "culture" as substitutes for more divisive terms such as "race," 
and promotes "American values" as a code for white culture and identity. Fuentes largely avoids 
explicitly white supremacist language, instead of focusing on "anti-establishment" thinking targeting the 
GOP, mainstream media, and "leftists." This strategy, along with the adoption of mainstream meme 
culture like Pepe the Frog, allows the America First movement to attract younger, mainstream 
conservatives who are then exposed to the group's extremist ideology. 
The Groypers also identify themselves as "American nationalists" who are part of the "America First" 
movement. To the Groypers, "America First" means that the U.S. should close its borders, bar 
immigrants, oppose globalism and promote "traditional" values like Christianity and oppose "liberal" 
values such as feminism and LGBTQ+ rights. 
Fuentes uses various current events, like the protests surrounding the murder of George Floyd or the 
Covid pandemic as opportunities to promote his ideology, recruit followers and raise funds. 
Fuentes' Evolution from Conservative to White Supremacist 
3  Fuentes launched his "America First" podcast on Right Side Broadcasting Network (RSBN) in February 
2017, when he was a student at Boston University. He used the show to promote right-wing views in 
opposition to immigration and multiculturalism. In April 2017, after an anti-Muslim tirade on his show, 
he talked about killing the "globalists" at CNN and said that he wants "people that run CNN to be arrested 
and deported or hanged .... " 
That same year, Fuentes began to align himself more closely with white supremacists. In August 2017, 
Fuentes attended the white supremacist Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, which erupted into 
violence after white supremacists and counter-protesters clashed, and Heather Heyer was killed. 
In April 2018, Fuentes again openly associated with white supremacists; he was a speaker at the annual 
American Renaissance conference hosted by white supremacist Jared Taylor. Fuentes was still promoting 
himself as a conservative and was described in the announcement for the conference as having been "very 
active in coordinating volunteers for the Trump campaign." 
In the fall of 2019, supporters of Fuentes, who referred to themselves as the "Groyper Army," began 
showing up at events hosted by Turning Point USA (TPUSA), a conservative student organization, and 
disrupting the speakers by asking controversial and provocative questions about issues such as white 
demographics, immigration, and the LGBTQ community. 
In December 2019, Fuentes and fellow white supremacist, Patrick Casey hosted a "Groyper Leadership 
Summit" in Florida. Casey, who also attended the Unite the Right rally in 2017, was head of the white 
supremacist American Identity Movement, which is now defunct. He focused his remarks on changing 
demographics in the U.S. and the "downsides to diversity." The real goal of the Groypers was to infuse 
white nationalism into the conservative movement. 
As mentioned earlier, Fuentes founded the America First Political Action Conference (AFP AC) in 2020 
in an effort to further distance himself from the mainstream GOP. AFPAC serves as a counterweight to 
the annual CP AC event held at the same time which is largely attended by mainstream conservative 
activists and elected officials. The testimony below will discuss AFP AC in more detail. 
The America First Foundation (AFF), a 501(c)(4), has a self-described mission to "advocate for 
conservative values based on principles of American Nationalism, Christianity, and Traditionalism." 
Fuentes also uses the America First Foundation to solicit donations . On the America First Foundation 
website, donations range from $10-to 500 urging those to support "the movement to stand up for the 
American people and reclaim our nation from the globalist rule. Your donations will go a long way 
toward assisting our efforts." ADL found that while AFF has yet to file its 990 forms for 2021, the IRS 
has granted the group 501(c)(4) status, exempting the group from federal income tax. 
The Groypers' Role on January 6, 2021 
Fuentes and other Groypers were present at the Capitol on January 6, about which Fuentes said, "This is 
awesome ... we have been beaten up and betrayed and spit on and stepped on for decades. And to see the 
tables turned for once was a little bit refreshing." Fuentes was seen that day giving a speech near the 
Capitol encouraging his followers to "keep moving towards the Capitol -it appears we are taking the 
Capitol back!" While Fuentes does not appear to have physically entered the Capitol building, individuals 
wearing America First merchandise appeared in videos and images inside the building. 
4  Nicholas J. Fuentes e @ ickJFuentes • Dec 19 
I will return to Washington DC to rally for President Trump on January 6th! 
0 7 t.l, 3 0 
December 19, 2020, a tweet from Nicholas Fuentes 
Groyper Activity in the Lead-up to January 6 (J 2.9K OC>O 
The events of January 6 and the "Stop the Steal" precursor rallies have emboldened white nationalists like 
Fuentes, who believe they have a chance of radicalizing the conservative movement and inspiring it to 
move further to the right and embrace white nationalism. 
Fuentes played a leadership role in the "Stop the Steal" protests that preceded the January 6 events --and 
in promoting the idea that Trump won the 2020 election. 
After Trump lost the November 2020 election, Fuentes became a leader and organizer of the "Stop the 
Steal" protests, ostensibly seeing the protests as an opportunity to exploit the anger and confusion felt by 
Trump supporters. Fuentes spoke at "Stop the Steal" protests in Michigan, Wisconsin, Arizona, and 
Washington, DC. On November 11, 2020, at a lightly attended "Stop the Steal" rally at the state capitol in 
Lansing, Michigan, during his live-streamed remarks, Fuentes referenced the Synagogue of Satan, an 
antisemitic term for Jews. "We have the president of the United States standing up to the banks, standing 
up to the mainstream media, standing up the big tax and the Democrats and the Synagogue of Satan," 
Fuentes said. "They want to see our kids raped and brainwashed. And they think it's funny. And when 
have we ever had a president like that? And will we ever get a president like that again?" 
The Groypers' involvement in the "Stop the Steal" protests appear to have inspired them to come to D.C. 
for the pro-Trump rally on January 6. In the days leading up to January 6, Fuentes continued to promote 
the myth of election fraud. 
• On January 4, 2021, Fuentes posted a video on DLive tacitly urging followers to kill state 
legislators , before he seemed to backpedal: "What can you and I do to state legislators besides kill 
them? Although I'm not advising that, I mean, what else are you going to do?" 
5  • On January 2, 2021, Fuentes announced that he would attend the "Rally to Save America" at noon 
on Tuesday, January 5, in Washington, D.C.'s Freedom Plaza. The event featured longtime 
Trump ally Roger Stone. 
• On December 12, 2020, multiple pro-Trump demonstrations took place in Washington, DC, 
including one that was organized by white supremacists and another that included extremist 
speakers on their dais. The largest event of the day was a prayer rally known as the "Jericho 
March," where speakers called for a Trump victory and for the "walls of corruption and election 
fraud to fall down." The name of the march refers to the city of Jericho, whose conquest is 
described in the Bible. Although the Jericho March included many mainstream speakers, among 
them former White House Security Advisor Michael Flynn and My Pillow CEO Michael Lindell, 
it also featured speeches by anti-government conspiracy theorist Alex Jones, as well as Stewart 
Rhodes, who founded the right-wing extremist group Oath Keepers. QAnon and Three Percenter 
flags and signage were in evidence at the Jericho March. 
A few blocks away from the Jericho March, Nick Fuentes, along with his GroyPer followers , held 
their own "Stop the Steal" rally. A sizeable crowd gathered around as Fuentes and others spoke 
about destroying the GOP for not supporting Trump and complaining about an alleged rigged 
election. White supremacist Red Elephants Founder Vincent James was present, as were 
GroyPers including Steven Franssen, Patrick Casey, Jake Lloyd, Scott Greer, and Jayden McNeil. 
Nick Fuentes reminded the crowd: "We promised at the first Million Maga March that if the GOP 
did not do everything in their power to keep Trump in office, then we would destroy the GOP ... 
We are done making promises. It has to happen now. We are going to destroy the GOP." The 
crowd erupted in the chant, "destroy the GOP." 
• On November 19, 2020, Fuentes spoke at the Georgia State Capitol along with conspiracy 
theorist Alex Jones, Proud Boys leader Enrique Tarrio, and right-wing agitator Ali Alexander . 
Fuentes said, "Often we have been screwed over and betrayed and insulted by the Republican 
establishment ... my mission will be to destroy the Republican party because I've had enough ... 
they are good for nothing ... and we will replace them with a party called America First." During 
the protest, Fuentes and Jones drove down Atlanta streets in an armored Info Wars vehicle, 
addressing the crowd via a microphone. 
6  american nationalist @ ationalis TV • 35m ooo 
ick Fuen es and Ale Jones a he Georgia S a e Capi ol Building 
0 lQ t"l RQ (") fiQ'i 
https://twitter.com/NationalistTV /status/1329129638141030405?s=20 
• Fuentes, accompanied by members of the Groyper Army, took part in the Million Maga March in 
Washington, DC, on November 14, 2020, waving their group's flag alongside Trump 2020 flags. 
Fuentes railed against Republican legislators and Fox News, adding." ... we are not going to live 
as captives. This is our Republican party. This is our country. USA!" 
Fuentes was able to exploit the "Stop the Steal" protests occurring across the county to voice his own 
views. For example, Fuentes' focus on Trump voters being disenfranchised meshes with his view that 
white people in general are being disenfranchised because America is being "overrun" by nonwhite 
immigrants and the country is run by globalist elites. In the lead-up to January 6, Fuentes was able to take 
on a leadership role in the protests, which gave him wider recognition and appeal, especially to Trump 
supporters who were angry at the election results. During his speeches, he aligned himself with the far­
right wing of the GOP, which was part of a broader GOP contingent promoting election fraud. 
Impact of Jan 6 on the Groyper Movement 
Fuentes claims that in the wake of January 6, 2021, his bank account has been frozen, he has been placed 
on the federal no-fly list, and has been banned from Airbnb, Facebook, and Instagram. Fuentes has used 
these new bans, along with being repeatedly suspended from other social media platforms for violating 
terms of policy with his bigoted rhetoric and imagery, to label himself as "cancelled" and to increase his 
appeal among right-pundits and even elected officials. 
Fuentes now regularly labels himself as "the most censored man alive" and argues that his deplatforming 
proves that he "challenges the status quo of the system" by "defending American identity and protesting 
mass migration," a system he claims has been corrupted by mainstream conservatives and the left. This 
rhetoric goes a step beyond other victimization narratives, as it successfully positions him as a leader in 
the alt-right space because of de-platforming. 
7  On October 12, 2021, Fuentes released a new live-streaming platform called Cozy.tv, a new effort for 
Groyper adherents to release extreme content on a platform shielded from deplatforming that the group 
has experienced on Twitter, Y ouTube, and other mainstream platforms. Fuentes described the platform as 
"the only site on the internet where live-streamers can stream without being censored ... This is the only 
place you can truly say is censorship proof, independent, and works." Various white supremacists and 
self-identified Groypers moved to Cozy.tv in the following months, and the site now hosts 29 channels, 
including Tim Gionet (aka Baked Alaska), Vicent James of The Red Elephants, Alex Jones oflnfo Wars, 
and Tyler Russell of Canada First. The platform allows for livestreaming, video replays, live chats, 
donations, and out-linking to external platforms and websites. Users can see viewership and donation 
stats live during each livestream. For example, Groyper Dalton Clodfelter's stream earned $2,558.25 in 
donations on February 21, 2022. Fuentes also solicits viewers to send Stream Payments of$10 a month to 
gain access to Cozy.tv's full video archive. 
Fuentes has explicitly celebrated his role in the January 6, calling the insurrection "awesome." Fuentes 
stated, "This is awesome ... we have been beaten up and betrayed and spit on and stepped on for decades. 
And to see the table turned for once was a bit refreshing." On January 6, 2022, he stated that January 6 
should be seen as a holiday, "This is a holiday. This is a historic moment for us. We should celebrate that 
it happened, absolutely. And I said this on Telegram late last night, after midnight so it was technically 
January 6, I don't regret a thing about my actions on January 6, and I don't regret ... anything that I did 
leading up to it in the three months prior, since Nov. 3, 2020." 
Nicholas J. Fuentes 
Happy Anniversary! 
f, 819 • 76 53 .. 8 3 
Groypers and the Monetization of January 6th 
Fuentes has continued to receive substantial donations from his involvement on January 6. Fuentes, prior 
to his deplatforming, streamed heavily on DLive, a streaming platform that allows streamers to earn 
money from subscriptions and donations from viewers. On January 4, 2021, Fuentes garnered $2,323.23 
in donations, and on January 7, 2021, $2,831.64 through DLive donations, both livestreams endorsed the 
insurrection. 
8  On December 8, 2021, a donor sent 28.15 BTC -approximately $522,000 at the time of transfer-to 22 
separate addresses, many of which belonged to far-right activists. Nick Fuentes received 13.5 BTC -
approximately $250,000 at the time of transfer -making him the largest beneficiary of the donation. This 
donation was by far the largest cryptocurrency donation that Fuentes ever received. 
Previously, according to a Chinalysis financial report, the most Fuentes ever received in a single month 
was $2,707 worth of Bitcoin. The donation allegedly came from a French computer programmer and 
early investor in Bitcoin. 
Who received funds ram the Deoember 8, 2020 extremis! donatioo7 
15 
Image Source: Chainalysis 
Fuentes asserted that shortly after the January 6 insurrection his bank account was suddenly drained, 
stating, "I went through my transaction history and I saw a legal order that subtracted my entire bank 
account. Both my credit cards and my entire checking account were frozen." Fuentes says that both his 
checking accounts and credit cards were also frozen and states that the Department of Justice placed the 
freeze on all his cash and his bank accounts, "They can take your money, they don't need a reason and 
they can keep it as long as they want and don't have to give it back." He used his financial freezes to 
further conspiracies regarding globalist control of the federal government threatening the American rights 
and property of those who are "an inconvenience or a problem to powerful people." In a January 26, 
2021, Telegram post, Fuentes stated, "Banned from all banks, credit cards, air travel, social media ... assets 
frozen, investigated, surveilled, and persecuted by the govemment...and for what? Because I keep it real." 
9  $0.00 
S0.00 
Statements 
SHOWING AU transactions 
Date Oescnplion 
j Jan 26, 2021 LEGAL 0R0ER: 1772521991 Paperless +$26,898.42 
~thismonth 
EQ Off I s.tup > 
~'-~~~~(~I!_ 
v Search> Transfer money 
Type 
OEBIT •$510.491 .20 
Withdraw.ti Um month 
1:1 Off I s«up > 
Oo-tror•flJYot«110n 
More ... 
Amount Balance 
-S483.S92 . 78 S0.00 j 
Image Caption: Screenshot Fuentes posted showing a legal order draining $483,592.78 from his bank 
account on January 26, 2021. 
Fuentes, Groypers, and the AFP AC Conference 
The recent rightward lurch within certain strains of American conservatism helped Fuentes and the 
Groypers when they began holding America First Political Action Conferences (AFPAC) . 
This event attracts a young, activist-heavy crowd who see themselves as the new vanguard of the 
conservative movement. They openly embrace white nationalist views at these conferences. Yet, the 
conferences have featured numerous elected officials in the past two years as speakers, including Rep. 
Paul Gosar (R-AZ), Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-GA), Wendy Rogers, a far-right Arizona State 
Senator, and Steve King, a former Congressman from Iowa. 
The line between AFPAC and CPAC (Conservative Political Action Committee) has become blurred. 
Rep. Greene spoke at both events in 2022 and although some members of her party condemned her 
appearance at AFPAC, she has suffered no censure or formal political consequences . Greene and Rogers 
also defended their appearances at AFP AC in social media posts, which further emboldens Fuentes. 
At the AFPAC III conference in Orlando on February 25, 2022, Fuentes celebrated and praised the 
January 6, 2021, attack on the Capitol, stating, "2021 began with the historic Patriot Day, as I call it." He 
went on to state that it was one of the proudest days of his life: "Just in case they are listening, this is for 
the FBI, the CIA .. .I'll reiterate it just for you. January 6 was awesome .. .I was proud to be an American 
on January 6 ... It was nice to see the people occupy the Capitol for once." 
Fuentes ended on an aggressive note, stating, "To the people that have thrown out and disrupted our 
country. We are coming for you. Your days in power are numbered. You think you can replace us? You 
10  are wrong. We will replace you! ... We are willing, ultimately, to die for our cause ... And I don't say that 
glibly, I am willing to die for this cause." He added, "Do you want to know our secret? Our secret sauce? 
It is these young white men." 
Groypers on Race, White Supremacy, and the Great Replacement 
Fuentes and the Groypers are motivated by the desire to preserve what they refer to as white Christian 
America. Fuentes often pulls on themes prevalent in the white supremacist Great Replacement Theory, or 
what Fuentes calls "Great Replacement REALITY." This idea focuses on the belief that native white 
Europeans are being replaced in their own countries by non-white immigrants from Africa and the Middle 
East, with the end result being the extinction of the white race. Fuentes tweeted in June, "If you are a 
White male zoomer, remember that the people in power hate you and your unborn children and they will 
try to genocide you in your lifetime." 
Groypers believe they are working to defend against demographic and cultural changes that are 
destroying the "true America" -a white, Christian nation. They claim not to be racist or antisemitic and 
see their bigoted views as "normal" and necessary to preserve white, European-American identity and 
culture, however, some members have expressed racist and antisemitic views on multiple occasions. They 
believe their views are shared by a majority of white people. 
One of the speakers at the February 2022 AFPAC III conference , white supremacist Vincent James, also 
referenced Great Replacement tropes in his speech, asserting that the American people are being replaced 
by those who advocate for the deconstruction of "whiteness" and wish to "dismantle the very culture that 
made this country the most prosperous on this planet." He said, "You shouldn't be mad about how they 
are defining your culture. You should be furious about the fact they are trying to replace it." He also 
referred to "anti-white propaganda" as a "declaration of war." 
Groypers' Use of Social Media Platforms 
Fuentes has used his social media accounts to promote election conspiracies and "Stop the Steal" events. 
Fuentes served as an organizer and speaker at many "Stop the Steal" protests leading up to January 6, 
including protests in Michigan, Georgia, Wisconsin, Arizona, and Washington, D.C. On November 8, 
2020, Fuentes urged "Midwest Groypers" to attend the Wisconsin and Michigan "Stop the Steal" rallies, 
stating, "GROYPERS ARE GOING TO STOP THIS COUP!" 
Nichollas J. Fuentes 0 
@NickJFuente5 
HUGE Protest today at 11 am at the US Supreme Court! 
We DEMAND that SCOTUS take up a case and intervene 
in this fraudulent election! 
5:07 AM • Dec 12, 2020 • Twitter for iPhone 
Nicholas J. Fuentes O -i: 1clcJ uentes • ti "• 
I will be in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania his Sa urday a he Sta e Capi ol 
Building at 12pm oon o DEMA D ha e Sae legisla ure send heir 
el& ors to vo e for Trump! 
Image Caption: Fuentes promoting Stop the Steal events around the United States. 
11  As the Million MAGA March approached, Fuentes promoted the event frequently on his platforms, 
urging his followers to attend, calling the event, "MAGA NIGHT AT THE WHITE HOUSE." One post 
on Fuentes' Twitter garnered 2.7K likes and, in a similar vein, the Million Maga March retweeted a video 
of Fuentes speech from the rally, resulting in 27K retweets and 8K likes. 
At the D.C. rally, on November 14, 2020, Fuentes rallied up the crowd, stating, " ... We are not going to 
live as captives. This is our Republican party. This is our country. USA." and "If there is anything that the 
Grand Old Party is good at, it is quarantining and ultimately silencing the opinions of patriotic European­
American people. It is evident to us that the patriotic true Americans in the GOP have to leave the 
Republican Party plantation ... When Trump is eventually gone, whether that be in a few months or four 
years, there will be no place for your point of view in the Republican Party ... As long as we exist, the 
American Freedom Party will always be the patriot's party and will be ready to defend White American's 
interest by any means available to us. The more we grow, the more we can defend, and there is definitely 
a place for you." 
Nicholas J. Fuentes O @NickJFuentes • Jun 17 
The American Regime used tech censorship , COVID hoax, election fraud, 
and capitol false flag to put down the revolt started by Trump in 2016 and 
ensure it can't happen again 
0 74 t.1. 643 C) 3.6K 
On November 23, 2020, Fuentes tweeted, "The political establishment is TERRIFIED that Trump 
supporters will mutiny against the Republican Party, and they should be. The GOP has presided over the 
destruction of America for years. We don't want any more useless, lying politicians and political games, 
WE WANT TRUMP!" Fuentes announced on January 2, 2021, that he would be attending the "Rally to 
Save America." 
In the days leading up to January 6, Fuentes and the Groypers continued to promote the myth of election 
fraud, Fuentes tweeting, "If Trump gets cheated here, it ought to be the primary directive of Trump 
supporters nationwide to PUNISH every single Republican officeholder who allowed this screw job to 
happen in 2022 and 2024. Make lists. Bum the whole thing down." 
On January 4, 2021, Fuentes posted a video on DLive tacitly urging followers to kill state legislators, 
before reversing himself, "What can you and I do to state legislators?" he asked, "Besides kill them. 
Although, I'm not advising that, I mean, what else are you going to do?" 
Conclusion 
Nick Fuentes and the Groypers represent a growing strain of right-wing extremism: white supremacists 
who couch their hateful, bigoted messaging in the language of "political activism." By positioning 
themselves as iconoclasts who are challenging the GOP establishment, the Groypers are making the case 
to young, disaffected white people (largely men) that white supremacist ideals are not only acceptable but 
achievable. 
There is a significant risk that as Fuentes and his followers gain traction among Republican candidates 
and office-holders, their racism will become normalized -and further metabolized into the "mainstream" 
conservative ecosystem. 
12 