UNITED STATES CAPITOL POLICE BOARD 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510 Phone: 
PERMIT RELATING TO DEMONSTRATION ACTIVITIES ON 
UNITED STATES CAPITOL GROUNDS 
SES: 20-12-25 
(1) SPONSORING PERSON AND/OR ORGANIZATION : 
Virginia Freedom Keepers 
(2) AREA OF CAPITOL GROUNDS TO BE INVOLVED : CP-1563 
(11/16) 
Senate Park -Area 7 (bounded by Delaware A venue, NE; C Street, NE; First Street, NE; and D Street, 
NE) 
(3) DATE, TIME, AND DURATION : 
DATE: Wednesday, January 6, 2021 TIME: 0600 -1800 hours 
(4) NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS: 
50 
(5) PROPS AND EQUIPMENT : 
❖ Various handheld signs / placards 
❖ One (1) stage (14'L x 8'W x 2'H) with staircase 
❖ One (1) press riser (8'L x 4'W x 2'H) 
❖ One ( 1) podium 
❖ Sound system consisting of the following: (includes set up / take down) 
o Six (6) JBL VRX932LA line array speakers (23.5"L x 13.5"W x 14.3"H) DURATION : 12 hours 
■ Two (2) speakers per side of stage supported by tripod speaker stand (6'H) secured by 
natural sandbags 
■ One (1) speaker per side of stage supported by tripod speaker stand (6'H) secured by 
natural sandbags 
o Four (4) microphones 
o One ( 1) mixing console 
o One ( 1) laptop 
o Various cables for connectivity 
❖ One (1) LED screen (13'L x 7'H) 
-Composed of sixteen (16) LED panels 
-placed on stage; secured with ballast 
-to provide video display of speakers of event 
-LED Screen-overall max height must not exceed 9'H; overall max length must not exceed 
13.S'L 
❖ One ( 1) Honda EU7000is gas generator 
❖ One(l)table 
❖ Sixteen (16) metal bike racks (8'L x 43"H) 
o Placed around stage; not enclosed or attached to each other 
o Bike racks will have an opening between the racks 
❖ Marshals will not be utilized for this event. 
❖ Electrical power has not been requested, nor is it available at this site. 
The spokesperson has been advised of the following: 
❖ Generator(s) must be fueled and refueled off Capitol Grounds. 
❖ Items cannot be tied [nailed, stapled or affixed] to any trees/fixtures. Non-breathable material (i.e., 
plastic, plywood, etc.) is prohibited from directly covering turf or other living landscape assets. Posts and 
stakes must be no more than ¼" in diameter, inserted no deeper than 9" into the ground, and approved by 
U.S. Capitol Police Special Events with final review by the Architect of the Capitol. 
❖ Per tlte Architect of the Capjtol, only natural burlap sandbags are allowed for use on the turf to protect 
the grouncls from any damage. No synthetic or plastic woven sandbags are allowed. 
❖ Projection of images -In accordance with the Traffic Regulations for the United States Capitol  UNITED STATES CAPITOL POLICE BOARD 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510 Phone: 
PERMIT RELATING TO DEMONSTRATION ACTIVITIES ON 
UNITED STATES CAPITOL GROUNDS 
SES: 20-12-25 CP-1563 
(11/16) 
Grounds, Section 12.2.20, the projection of images onto any buildings will not be permitted and is 
prohibited on Capitol Grounds. 
❖ Height Restriction: No single prop, piece of equipment or combination thereof may exceed fifteen ( 15) 
feet in height. 
❖ Stages, Risers and Platforms: No stage, riser or platform may exceed two (2) feet in height. 
❖ Music -In accordance with the Traffic Regulations for the United States Capitol Grounds, Section 12.1.30 ( e) 
"Ceremonial Events & Entertainment" musicals are not considered demonstrations and require Capitol Police 
Board Approval. 
❖ The volume of the sound will be kept to a minimum and directed away from Congressional Office Buildings. 
❖ Tripods and lighting equipment are authorized on grassy areas only and must not impede pedestrian or 
vehicular traffic. Photos / film taken must not be used for any commercial purposes. 
❖ Tents, cabanas, canopies or any other covered structures are expressly prohibited. 
❖ Solicitation, commercialization, and /or advertisement of any kind are expressly prohibited. 
❖ Delivery vehicle(s) must report to USCP Off-Site Delivery, 4700 Shepherd Parkway, SW, for initial 
screening (Monday through Friday during operational hours 0430-1300 hours). Then -
❖ Delivery vehicle(s) must report to New Jersey and C Street, NW for secondary screening (Arrival 
after 1300 hours and on the holidays and weekends, delivery vehicle(s) will respond to this location for 
initial screening only). 
❖ Delivery vehicle(s) must unload and reload equipment along the north curb of D Street, NE, 
between Delaware Avenue, NE and First Street, NE. 
❖ Upon unloading, delivery vehicle(s) must depart Capitol Grounds and not return until conclusion 
of the event. 
❖ DELIVERY VEIDCLE(S) MUST NOT BE LEFT UNATTENDED AT ANY TIME. 
❖ EQUIPMENT MUST BE HAND-CARRIED OR HAND-CARTED TO THE EVENT SITE. 
BARRICADE ACCESS IS NOT PERMITTED. 
❖ SPECIAL OPERATIONS DIVSION PERSONNEL WILL INSPECT ALL PROPS AND 
EQUIPMENT, AND MONITOR THE EVENT. 
NOTE: PARKING IS NOT AUTHORIZED ON CAPITOL GROUNDS. 
(6) The authorized person or organization named in clause (1) of the Permit is entitled to utilize the area of the United 
States Capitol Grounds described in clause (2), and any props or equipment described in clause (5) of this Pemiit, in 
carrying out, during the date and time set forth in clause (3) of this Permit, their right to engage in peaceable and 
orderly demonstration activities (as defined in Chapter 12, Section 12.1.10 of the Traffic Regulations for the United 
States Capitol Grounds). 
(7) In order to assure the safety and convenience of all the people in the exercise of their right to visit the Nation's Capitol, 
to call at the offices of Representatives and Senators, to observe public proceedings of Congress, to petition the 
Congress for redress of grievances , engage in peaceable and orderly conduct of any hearing before, or any deliberation 
of, any committee or subcommittee of the congress or either House thereof, or unreasonably interfere with the 
maintenance of good order on the Capitol Grounds, the Capitol Police Board hereby includes as part of this Pennit the 
following conditions and tin1e liinitations which the Capitol Police Board has detennined necessary in order to 
minimize the obstruction or impediment of vehicular and other traffic (including pedestrian traffic) through or within 
the Capitol Grounds and to assure the safety thereof: 
(a) In the event an official function is scheduled that could conflict with this demonstration , the demonstrators will 
clear the respective area prior to said function, and return after said function has departed the Capitol Grounds. 
(b) Any display of signs, banners, placards, and related items is strictly prohibited inside all Capitol Buildings. 
Literature may not be distributed in the hallways of any building on Capitol Grounds. 
(c) It is forbidden to offer or expose any article for sale in said United States Capitol Grounds; to display any sign, 
placard, or other form of adve1iisement therein; to solicit fares, ah11S, subscriptions , or contributions therein.  UNITED STATES CAPITOL POLICE BOARD 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510 Phone: 
PERMIT RELATING TO DEMONSTRATION ACTIVITIES ON 
UNITED STATES CAPITOL GROUNDS 
SES: 20-12-25 CP-1563 
(11/16) 
( d) The setting-up, placement , or storage of camping equipment, tents, sleeping bags, bedroll, bedding of any kind 
or shelter of any kind, at any time, is prohibited. Any sleeping or lying-down on the paved or improved 
portions of the Buildings and Grounds (such as streets, roads, sidewalks , walkways , steps, curbs, gutters, 
doorways, alcoves, walls) at any time is prohibited . Any sleeping or lying-down on any unpaved, or 
unimproved (grassy) portion of the Grounds from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise, is 
prohibited . 
( e) Immediately upon the conclusion of the demonstration activity can-ied out pursuant to this permit, all props, 
equipment and facilities pem1itted under Chapter 12 Section 12.5.10 of the Traffic Regulations for Capitol 
Grounds, which have been used in connection with such activity shall be removed by the applicant from 
Capitol Grounds. Further, the applicant shall take such action as may be necessary so as to leave the Capitol 
Grounds in as reasonably good and clean a condition as that which existed immediately prior to the 
commencement of such activity. 
(f) As a condition precedent to the issuance of this Pemnt, all participants in the proposed demonstration (parade, 
convocation , etc.) shall agree not to carry on his/her person any firearm, explosive, club, n1issile, chemical or 
other incendiary device or any other weapon; candles, torches, lanterns, lamps, etc., while ignited; or to cause to 
become ig11ited any ignitable materials for the purpose of producing a flame. Further, all participants shall 
agree not to carry any support for signs, banners, placards, etc., which is more than three-quarters of an inch 
square at its largest point. All supports must have dull ends and cannot in any way be constrned as a weapon. 
There shall be no nails, screw, or bolt-type fastening devices protruding from any support. 
01/04/2021 
(Date Approved) Member, 
United States Capitol Police Board 
(Date Approved) Chairman , 
United States Capitol Police Board 