SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE 
JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL, 
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
DEPOSITION OF: STEPHEN K. BANNON (NO-SHOW) 
Thursday, October 14, 2021 
Washington, D.C. 
The deposition in the above matter was held in Room 1540A, Longworth House 
Office Building, commencing at 10:00 a.m. 
Present: Representative Schiff. 1  Appearances: 
For the SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE 
THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL: 
CHIEF INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
SENIOR INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
CHIEF COUNSEL 
INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
, PARLIAMENTARIAN 
CHIEF CLERK 2  - So we are on the record. Today is October 14, 2021. The time is 
10:00 a.m. We are convened in the Longworth House Office Building, room 1540A, for 
the deposition of Stephen K. Bannon to be conducted by the House Select Committee to 
Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol. 3 
My name is I am the designated select committee staff counsel for 
this proceeding. And I'd ask everyone else to please go around the room and introduce 
themselves. 
to the select committee. 
the select committee. investigative counsel with the select committee. 
I'm the chief investigative counsel 
deputy staff director and chief counsel for 
chief clerk for the select committee. 
parliamentarian for the select committee. 
For the record, it is 10:01 a.m., and Mr. Bannon is not present. 
The person transcribing this proceeding is the House stenographer and notary public 
authorized to administer oaths. 
On September 23, 2021, Chairman Bennie Thompson issued a subpoena to 
Mr. Bannon both to produce documents by October 7, 2021, and to testify at a deposition 
today, October 14, 2021, at 10:00 a.m. 
The subpoena is in connection with the select committee's investigation into the 
facts, circumstances, and causes of the January 6th attack and issues relating to the 
peaceful transfer of power, in order to identify and evaluate lessons learned and to 
recommend to the House and its relevant committees corrective laws, policies,  procedures, rules, or regulations. 
This inquiry includes examination of how various individuals, to include 
Mr. Bannon, and entities coordinated their activities leading up to the events of 
January 6, 2021. Mr. Bannon has not produced any documents or appeared today to 
testify. 
I will mark as exhibit 1 and enter into the record the select committee's subpoena 
to Mr. Bannon, included with which are the materials that accompanied the subpoena, 
namely, a letter from the chairman, a document scheduled with accompanying 
production instructions, and a copy of the deposition rules. 
[Bannon Exhibit No. 1 
Was marked for identification.] 
I will mark as exhibit 2 and enter into the record an email exchange 
and Robert Costello, Mr. Bannon's attorney. 
[Bannon Exhibit No. 2 
Was marked for identification.] 
- On September 23, 2021, emailed Mr. Costello the 4 
subpoena to Mr. Bannon and the accompanying materials included in exhibit 1 and asked 
whether Mr. Costello was authorized to accept service of the subpoena on Mr. Bannon's 
behalf. 
Mr. Costello replied to on September 24, 2021, that he was 
authorized to accept service of the subpoena on Mr. Bannon's behalf. 
I will mark as exhibit 3 and enter into the record a letter Mr. Costello sent to 
on October 7, 2021. 
[Bannon Exhibit No. 3 
Was marked for identification.]  In sum and substance, the letter states that Mr. Bannon is, quote, 
"legally unable to comply with your subpoena requests for documents and testimony," 
close quote, because President Trump's attorney informed Mr. Costello by letter, dated 
October 6, 2021, that President Trump is invoking executive privilege, quote, "to the 
fullest extent permitted by law," close quote, and instructing Mr. Bannon not to provide 
documents or testimony, quote, "concerning privileged material," close quote, in 
response to the select committee's subpoena. 5 
I will mark as exhibit 4 and enter into the record a letter that Chairman Thompson 
sent to Mr. Costello in response on October 8, 2021. 
[Bannon Exhibit No. 4 
Was marked for identification.] 
- And I'll take a brief pause to recognize that Mr. Schiff has joined us. 
Turning back to the letter that Chairman Thompson sent on October 8th, in sum 
and substance, the response states that Mr. Costello's, quote, "letter relies on an 
apparent instruction from former President Donald Trump that appears limited to 
requesting that Mr. Bannon not disclose privileged information. Despite this limited 
instruction, your letter takes the inappropriate position that Mr. Bannon will not comply 
with any request for information or testimony sought by the select committee. 
Moreover, Mr. Trump's stated 'intention to assert those executive privileges' that may or 
may not belong to him does not provide a legal basis for Mr. Bannon's refusal to comply 
with the subpoena," close quote. 
The letter states the select committee's expectation that Mr. Bannon would 
appear today for the deposition and respond fully to the select committee's questions 
and to state for the record any objections to particular questions for the select 
committee's consideration and possible judicial review.  The letter concludes by advising that the select committee will view Mr. Bannon's 
failure to respond to the subpoena as, quote, "willful noncompliance," close quote, that 
would force the select committee to consider invoking the contempt of Congress 
procedures entitled to United States Code, sections 192 and 194, which could result in a 
referral from the House to the Department of Justice for criminal charges as well as the 
possibility of a civil action against Mr. Bannon personally to enforce the subpoena. 
I will mark as a final exhibit, exhibit 5, and enter into the record a reply letter that 
Mr. Costello sent to Chairman Thompson the evening of October 13, 2021. 
[Bannon Exhibit No. 5 
Was marked for identification.] 
In sum and substance, the letter reiterates that Mr. Bannon is 
abiding by President Trump's invocation of executive privilege and direction to 
Mr. Bannon not to produce documents or testify. 
In support of Mr. Bannon's position, the letter cites several judicial opinions on 
executive privilege, including a 2019 decision of the United States District Court in 
Washington in the case of Committee on the Judiciary v. McGahn. 6 
In particular, the letter cites the following sentence from the court's opinion, 
quote: "The President can certainly identify sensitive information that he deems subject 
to executive privilege, and his doing so gives rise to a legal duty on the part of the aide to 
invoke the privilege on the President's behalf when, in the course of his testimony, he is 
asked a question that would require disclosure of that information," close quote. 
However, Mr. Bannon is not here today to assert executive privilege on a 
question-by-question basis. He chose instead not to appear at all, just as he chose not 
to produce any documents at all or even a log of responsive documents that he is 
withholding based on the claim of executive privilege.  With that, I will note for the record that it is 10:06 a.m., and Mr. Bannon still has 
not appeared or communicated to the select committee that he will appear today as 
required by the subpoena. 
Accordingly, the record is now closed as of 10:06 a.m. 
[Whereupon, at 10:06 a.m., the deposition was concluded.] 7 