OFFICE OF THE VICE PRESIDENT 
Information Memorandum 
TO: 
FROM: VICE PRESIDENT PENCE 
GREGORY JACOB, COUNSEL TO THE VICE PRESIDENT 
Gregory.F.Jacob@ovp.eop.gov 
202-881-9069 
SUBJECT: JANUARY 6 FLOW CHART OF LEGAL PROVISIONS 
DATE: JANUARY 2, 2021 
Article II, Section 1 of the Constitution provides: 
"Each State shall appoint, in such Manner as the Legislature thereof may direct, a 
Number of Electors, equal to the whole Number of Senators and Representatives to 
which the State may be entitled in the Congress .... " 
This clause is widely understood to give State legislatures primacy in determining State 
electors. State legislatures may directly designate electors (which last occurred in 
1876), or they may through laws enacted prior to Election Day provide for the choice of 
electors through the popular vote. Some Supreme Court Justices have suggested this 
clause provides a legal basis for federal courts to invalidate attempts by rogue State 
executives to depart from the plain terms of State election laws. 
The original language of Article II, Section 1 further provided: 
"Electors shall meet in their respective States, and vote by Ballot for two Persons .... 
And they shall make a List of all the Persons voted for, and of the Number of Votes for 
each; which List they shall sign and certify, and transmit sealed to the Seat of the 
Government of the United States, directed to the President of the Senate. The 
President of the Senate shall. in the Presence of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives , open all the Certificates , and the Votes shall then be counted." 
The Twelfth Amendment (1804) responded to the Jefferson/Burr dispute of 1800 
by requiring separate votes for President and Vice President, but it otherwise 
incorporated without change Article ll's language about counting electoral votes: 
"Electors shall meet in their respective States, and vote by Ballot for President and Vice 
President ... [a]nd they shall make distinct lists of all persons voted for as President, 
and of all persons voted for as Vice-President, and of the number of votes for each; 
which lists they shall sign and certify, and transmit sealed to the Seat of the 
Government of the United States, directed to the President of the Senate. The 
President of the Senate shall. in the Presence of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives, open all the Certificates , and the Votes shall then be counted." 
Page 1 of 5 
00131  In 1876, three different States submitted multiple slates of electors, provoking a 
constitutional crisis. 
In 1876, three states (Florida, Louisiana, and South Carolina) returned two or more 
slates of electors amidst allegations of fraud and malfeasance, and a fourth state 
(Oregon) had the validity of one of its electors challenged. Republican Rutherford 
Hayes needed every one of the 20 disputed electoral votes in order to achieve a razor­
thin 185-184 electoral vote win over Democrat Samuel Tilden. 
Enacted ten years later, the Electoral Count Act of 1887 provided for the first time 
a specific statutory process for counting electoral votes, and for determining 
objections. 
For present purposes , the most important provisions of the Electoral Count Act are as 
follows: 
• 3 U.S.C. § 5 (the "Safe Harbor" provision ): If a State provides "by laws enacted 
prior to [Election Day] for its final determination of any controversy or contest 
concerning the appointment of ... electors of such State, by judicial or other 
methods or procedures , and such determination shall have been made at least 
six days before the time fixed for the meeting of the electors,1 such determination 
... shall be conclusive . and shall aovern in the countina of the electoral votes as 
provided in the Constitution, and as hereinafter regulated, so far as the 
ascertainment of the electors appointed by such State is concerned. " 
• 3 U.S.C. § 6 (the "certificate of ascertainment" provision): "It shall be the duty of 
the executive of each State, as soon as practicable after the conclusion of the 
appointment of the electors in such State by the final ascertainment , under and in 
pursuance of the laws of such State providing for such ascertainment, to 
communicate by registered mail under the seal of the State to the Archivist of the 
United States a certificate of such ascertainment of the electors appointed .... " 
• 3 U.S.C. § 15-18 (these provisions , which govern the counting of electoral votes 
and the resolution of disputes, are set forth below in the order of expected 
chronological events, rather than in the order that the relevant text appears within 
the statute): 
Basic Rules of the Joint Session 
o "The Senate and House of Representatives shall meet in the Hall of 
the House of Representatives at the hour of 1 o'clock in the afternoon on 
that day, and the President of the Senate shall be their presiding officer." 
1 In the 2020 election, all 50 States and the District of Columbia provided certificates of 
ascertainment for their electors on or before December 8, which was six days before the 
electors voted on December 14. All thus qualified for the Section 5 safe harbor. 
Page 2 of 5 
00132  00133 o "Such joint meetinq shall not be dissolved until the count of electoral votes 
shall be completed and the result declared ; and no recess shall be taken 
unless a question shall have arisen in regard to counting any such votes, 
or otherwise under this subchapter, in which case it shall be competent for 
either House, acting separately , in the manner hereinbefore provided, to 
direct a recess of such House not beyond the next calendar day, Sunday 
excepted, at the hour of 1 O o'clock in the forenoon. But if the counting of 
the electoral votes and the declaration of the result shall not have been 
completed before the fifth calendar dav next after such first meetina of the 
two Houses, no further or other recess shall be taken by either House." (3 
u.s.c. § 16) 
o "While the two Houses shall be in meeting as provided in this chapter, the 
President of the Senate shall have power to preserve order; andJJ.Q 
debate shall be allowed and no question shall be put by the presiding 
officer except to either House on a motion to withdraw ." (3 U.S.C. § 18) 
o "Two tellers shall be previously appointed on the part of the Senate and 
two on the part of the House of Representatives , to whom shall be 
handed, as they are opened by the President of the Senate, all the 
certificates and papers purporting to be certificates of the electoral votes, 
which certificates and papers shall be opened, presented, and acted upon 
in the alphabetical order of the States, beginning with the letter A." 
Procedures for Resolving Objections to Validity 
o "Upon such reading of any such certificate or paper, the President of 
the Senate shall call for obiections. if anv. Every objection shall be made 
in writing, and shall state clearly and concisely, and without argument, the 
ground thereof, and shall be signed by at least one Senator and one 
Member of the House of Representatives before the same shall be 
received. 
o "No votes or papers from any other State shall be acted upon until the 
objections previously made to the votes or papers from any State shall 
have been finally disposed of." 
o "When all obiections so made to any vote or oaoer from a State shall have 
been received and read, the Senate shall thereupon withdraw, and such 
objections shall be submitted to the Senate for its decision; and the 
Speaker of the House of Representatives shall, in like manner, submit 
such objections to the House of Representatives for its decision." 
o "When the two Houses separate to decide upon an objection that may 
have been made to the counting of any electoral vote or votes from any 
State, or other question arising in the matter, each Senator and 
Representative may speak to such objection or question five minutes, and 
not more than once; but after such debate shall have lasted two hours it 
shall be the duty of the presiding officer of each House to put the main 
question without further debate." (3 U.S.C. § 17) 
Page 3 of 5  00134 o In deciding upon objections, "no electoral vote or votes from 
any State which shall have been regularly given by electors whose 
appointment has been lawfully certified to accordina to section 6 of this 
title from which but one return has been received shall be rejected, but the 
two Houses concurrently may reject the vote or votes when they agree 
that such vote or votes have not been so regularly given by electors 
whose appointment has been so certified." 
o "When the two Houses have voted, they shall immediately again meet, 
and the presiding officer shall then announce the decision of the questions 
submitted." 
Procedures for Choosing Between Competing Slates 
o "If more than one return or paper purportina to be a return from 
a State shall have been received by the President of the Senate, those 
votes, and those only, shall be counted which shall have been regularly 
given by the electors who are shown by the determination mentioned 
in section 5 of this title to have been appointed, if the determination in said 
section provided for shall have been made .... " 
o "[B]ut in case there shall arise the question which of two or more of 
such State authorities determining what electors have been appointed, as 
mentioned in section 5 of this title, is the lawful tribunal of such State, the 
votes regularly given of those electors, and those only, of such State shall 
be counted whose title as electors the two Houses, acting separately , shall 
concurrently decide is supported by the decision of such State so 
authorized by its law; 
o "[l]f there shall have been no such determination of the question in 
the State aforesaid , then those votes, and those only, shall be counted 
which the two Houses shall concurrently decide were cast by lawful 
electors appointed in accordance with the laws of the State, unless the 
two Houses, acting separately, shall concurrently decide such votes not to 
be the lawful votes of the legally appointed electors of such State." 
o "But if the two Houses shall disagree in respect of the counting of such 
votes, then, and in that case, the votes of the electors whose appointment 
shall have been certified by the executive of the State. under the seal 
thereof, shall be counted. 
o "When the two Houses have voted, they shall immediately again meet, 
and the presiding officer shall then announce the decision of the questions 
submitted ." 
Announcement of the Final State of the Vote 
Page 4 of 5  00135 o "[S]aid tellers, having then read the same in the presence and hearing of 
the two Houses, shall make a list of the votes as they shall appear from 
the said certificates; and the votes having been ascertained and counted 
according to the rules in this subchapter provided, the result of the same 
shall be delivered to the President of the Senate, who shall thereupon 
announce the state of the vote, which announcement shall be deemed a 
sufficient declaration of the persons, if any, elected President and Vice 
President of the United States, and, together with a list of the votes, be 
entered on the Journals of the two Houses." 
Page 5 of 5 