From: Jillian Anderson 
Subject: BRIEFING FOLLOW UP: ELECTION 2020 I GOT FREEDOM? 
Saturday, January 2, 2021 8:43:25 PM Date: 
GOT FREEDOM? I ELECTION 2020 UPDATE 
Colleagues: 
I would like to thank all of the participants for joining our exclusive national 
briefing today in which we provided details of the unprecedented and coordinated 
effort to improperly influence the outcome of the 2020 presidential election in the 
contested states. This was an important briefing for legislators who hold the 
power to decertify the results of their state elections. We are especially grateful to 
our featured speakers, including Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Professor John Eastman, 
Dr. Peter Navarro, and John Lott; and of course, we were honored that President 
Trump joined us to address the group. 
As Thomas Paine said, "these are the times that try men's souls," and "the real 
man smiles in trouble, gathers strength from distress, and grows brave by 
reflection." You are now being counted among those who still took a stand for the 
accuracy and integrity of our elections--both now and in the future. 
As elected officials in the House and Senate of your respective states, Professor 
Eastman laid out the Constitutional imperatives for you: 
• Assert your plenary power 
• Demand that your laws be followed as written 
• Decertify tainted results unless and until your laws are followed 
• Insist on enough time to properly meet, investigate, and properly certify 
results to ensure that all lawful votes (but only lawful votes) are counted. 
Paine reminds us, "it is error only, not truth, that shrinks from inquiry." 
While we will follow up with more information, we would like to first encourage 
you to agree to sign on to a joint letter from state legislators to Vice President 
Mike Pence to demand that he call for a 12-day delay on ratifying the election, 
allowing the states the necessary time to further investigate the lawlessness with 
which the presidential election was conducted. We also request that you send 
this message out to fellow legislators to ask them to sign on to the letter as well 
If you are willing to sign on to the letter, please reply 
to Jillian@proactivecommunications.com with the following information (your 
contact information will not be share with anyone): 
• Name 
• State 
• Title (Senator/Representative) 
• E-mail 
• Mobile Phone 
Please note that Representative Daryl Metcalfe (R-Pennsylvania), 
Senator Brandon Beach (R-Georgia), and Representative Mark Finchem (R-M11  Arizona) already wrote a letter to Vice President Mike Pence for this narrow 
purpose. Coming together to sign a joint letter is a vital step-one you should take 
confidently and in solidarity. We will send the joint letter to all legislators who 
contact us in reply to this message. 
Finally, in order to access the primary resources with the evidence that we 
discussed during the briefing today, please go to: https://got-
freedom.org / evidence/. 
Sincerely, 
Phill Kline 
Got Freedom, a 501 C4 nonprofit organization M12 