SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE 
JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL, 
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
DEPOSITION OF: JEFFREY CLARK 
Friday, November 5, 2021 
Washington, D.C. 
The interview in the above matter was held in room 4480, O'Neill House Office 
Building, commencing at 10:00 a.m. 
Present: Representatives Thompson, Lofgren, Schiff, Aguilar, Murphy, Raskin, 
Luria, Cheney, and Kinzinger. 1  Appearances: 
For the SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE 
THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL: 
STAFF DIRECTOR 
DEPUTY STAFF DIRECTOR AND CHIEF COUNSEL 
CHIEF INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
SENIOR INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
DETAILEE, DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY 
SENIOR INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
PROFESSIONAL STAFF 
CHIEF CLERK 
ENIOR INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
CHIEF ADMINSTRATIVE OFFICER 2  For THE WITNESS: 
HARRY MACDOUGALD 
Caldwell, Carlson, Elliott & Deloach, LLP 
Two Ravinia Drive 
Suite 1600 
Atlanta, GA 30346 3  Good morning. This is a deposition of Jeffrey B. Clark, conducted 
by the House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the U.S. Capitol, 
pursuant to House Resolution 503. 4 
Mr. Clark, if you could please state your full name and spell your last name for the 
record. 
The Witness. Sure. Jeffrey B. Clark. Clark is C-1-a-r-k. 
This will be a staff-led deposition. Members of the select 
committee, I believe, are already in attendance and may also choose to ask questions. 
My name is- and I'm the chief investigative counsel to the select 
committee. I think we have Vice Chair Cheney, Ms. Lofgren, two members of the select 
committee, who are attending via Webex. 
We are conducting a deposition in person. 
So, under the House deposition rules, neither committee members nor staff may 
discuss the substance of the testimony that you provide today, unless the committee 
approves release. This is essentially an executive session of the select committee. 
You and your attorney will have an opportunity to review the transcript. The 
court reporter is taking a verbatim account of the testimony. And you'll have a chance, 
Mr. Clark, to read that and review it before it is finalized to ensure that it is correct. 
Before we begin, I would like to describe just a few ground rules. We'll follow 
the House deposition rules that we have provided to your counsel, Mr. MacDougald, 
previously. Under the House deposition rules, counsel for other persons or government 
agencies may not attend, but you are permitted to have your attorney present, and I see 
that you do have your attorney with you.  Mr. MacDougald, if you could just introduce yourself and spell your name for the 
court reporter? 
Mr. MacDougald. Yes, sir. My name is Harry MacDougald. I represent 
Mr. Clark in this proceeding. My last name is spelled M-a-c, capital D-o-u-g-a-1-d. 
So, as noted, there is an official reporter transcribing the record of 
the deposition. Please wait until each question is completed before you begin your 
response. We will try to wait until your response is complete before we ask our next 
question. The stenographer cannot record nonverbal responses, such as shaking your 
head. So it's important that you answer each question with an audible verbal response. 5 
We ask that you provide complete answers based on your best recollection. If a 
question is not clear, please ask for clarification. If you do not know the answer, then 
just simply say so. You may only refuse to answer a question to preserve a privilege 
recognized by the select committee. If you refuse to answer a question based on 
privilege, staff may either proceed with the deposition or seek a ruling from the chairman 
based on the objection. If the chairman overrules such an objection, you are required to 
answer the question. 
I also have to remind you that it is unlawful to deliberately provide false 
information to Congress. Since your deposition is under oath, we ask that you please 
stand and raise your right hand to be sworn by the court reporter. 
[Witness sworn.] 
Q So, Mr. Clark, I want to give you a chance to open --to provide any opening 
comments you have. But I just want to make sure you know who everyone is on our 
side of the table. 
So I'll introduce myself. I am the chief investigative counsel. With me is.  6 
who are senior investigative counsel who is an 
investigative counsel; 
and I see who are also counsel to the committee; 
, who is the deputy staff director and chief counsel to the select 
committee; and -who is our parliamentarian. 
researcher, is here as well. who is a 
On the video, again, I think our staff director, has joined. And I 
also introduced before Ms. Lofgren and Ms. Cheney. 
So, with that, if there is anything --
Mr. MacDougald. Yes. I would like to advise counsel and the committee that I 
delivered a letter to which was addressed to Representative Thompson, on 
behalf of Mr. Clark that asserts executive privilege with respect to testimony and 
documents that have been subpoenaed from Mr. Clark. 
The grounds of our assertion are set forth in the letter. It is 12 pages. And, 
based on those objections, we do not intend to answer any questions or produce any 
documents today, but we have appeared in compliance with the subpoena in order to 
assert those objections, as opposed to just refusing to show up. 
All right. So I appreciate that the letter has been delivered. We 
did receive it, as you --
Mr. MacDougald. And I actually have some copies for other counsel, a few. 
Maybe not for everybody, but I would be happy to pass those around, keeping one for 
myself. 
Thank you, Mr. MacDougald. 
So let me make sure I understand. The letter, which I haven't had a chance to 
read yet, sets forth the position that Mr. Clark will not answer any question, regardless of 
its subject matter.  Mr. MacDougald. Correct. 
Due to executive privilege. 
Mr. MacDougald. Correct. 
Will also not produce any documents. 
The Witness. Correct. 
Mr. MacDougald. And I interrupt just to say also on the basis that it would be 
prudent to await the conclusion with finality of the judicial review proceedings that are 
going on in the DDC. 
Again, I haven't had a chance to read the letter. But I will say for 
the record that our intention today was to ask questions well beyond direct 
communications with the former President, questions about your involvement with 
Members of Congress, questions about your work within the Department of Justice, your 
interaction within the Department well beyond direct communications with the 
President. 
Again, still your position that, beyond direct communications, all of the entire 
subject matter is subject to executive privilege? 
Mr. MacDougald. Yes. That is our position, And the reason for 
that is that the privileges that are under the overall umbrella of executive privilege are 
numerous, including Presidential communications. In addition, as a Department of 
Justice official, there is a law enforcement privilege, law enforcement investigation 
privilege. There are --there is a deliberative process privilege. There are any number, 
not to mention the attorney-client privilege. So all of these things are applicable in this 
context. I understand that's disputed by the committee. 
Uh-huh. 
Mr. MacDougald. And I don't want to get into an argument with you all about 7  8 
that today. That's being argued in court. And there will ultimately be a decision about 
that. We don't know where that line is going to be drawn. 
Mr. Clark finds himself in a position of having worked for a President who has 
exerted executive privilege, giving him a letter asserting executive privilege. And, 
therefore, as his lawyer, I can't allow him to be exposed to the risk of guessing where that 
line is going to be drawn. And so, for now, we are standing on executive privilege. We 
will not be answering any questions or producing any documents. 
You are in receipt, Mr. Clark, of --are you not, of a letter dated July 
21st, I believe, of earlier this year, from the Department of Justice, indicating that, in view 
of the current White House, the current Department of Justice, it would not be 
appropriate to exert executive privilege? 
Mr. MacDougald. We understand that's the position of the Department of 
Justice on this matter --
The Witness. But I --
Mr. MacDougald. And the White House. I mean, he did receive a letter. 
Okay? 
The Witness. I want to reserve all rights as to that letter, including rights to --to 
make any and all arguments about it, but I am in receipt of the letter, yes. 
Okay. Can we take 5 minutes? 
Mr. MacDougald. Sure. 
- I just want to consult with the parliamentarian about sort of what, 
if anything, we need to do on the record to preserve the ongoing conversation. 
Mr. MacDougald. Sure. 
I appreciate it. Thank you. 
Mr. MacDougald. Thank you, sir.  So we'll take a brief recess. 
[Recess.] 
BY-: 
Q Thank you for your indulgence. I had a chance to quickly look at the letter. 
And I do want to ask a few questions just to clarify more specifically the basis of the 
privilege assertion and ensure that we have on the record some of the things that 
happened before today. 
So, Mr. Clark, you were subpoenaed back on October 13th to appear before the 
select committee, and we agreed to defer that to today when you obtained new counsel, 
Mr. MacDougald. Is that right? 
A That's correct. 9 
Q And were you given, and I asked you about this before, a letter back --dated 
July 26th of 2021, that --and I'm going to quote from it. It was from the Department of 
Justice, indicating that committees had sought your testimony about any efforts by 
President Trump or any DOJ officials to advance unsubstantiated allegations of voter 
fraud, challenge the 2020 election results, stop Congress' count of the electoral college 
vote, or overturn President Biden's certified victory. 
And, in response to congressional inquiries on those subject matters, the 
Department of Justice indicated --and I'm going to quote again --given these 
extraordinary circumstances, including President Biden's determination that executive 
privilege --determination on executive privilege, which was that it wouldn't be 
appropriate, and having reviewed the scope of the committee's request and reviews, the 
Department authorizes you to provide unrestricted testimony to the committees 
irrespective of potential privilege, as long as the testimony is confined to the scope of the 
interviews as set forth by the committees. And you received that letter back in July. Is  10 
that right? 
A I've answered that question already. I will refer to counsel. 
Q And are you aware that other representatives of the Department of Justice, 
frankly your superiors at the time that you were employed there, received a similar letter 
and have provided testimony to congressional committees? 
A Yes. 
Q And, yet, your position today is in stark contrast to theirs. 
Mr. MacDougald. Yes, we address that in the letter. 
Q Now, in the letter, which, again, I appreciate you giving us this morning, but 
we have not had a chance to review before. 
Mr. MacDougald. And I would like, on the record, to apologize to you, 
and to the committee and staff for being so late in delivering this item to you 
when you were inquiring about our position. So, two things: One, I want to thank you 
for the one-week extension. Very much appreciate it. But, secondly, to apologize for 
the inconvenience. Having just gotten into the matter, we have been working on this 
right up until yesterday afternoon and preparing what we were going to say, and we just 
weren't ready to tell you. 
Mr. MacDougald, I understand. These are important issues, and 
we want to make sure you and your client are fully prepared. 
Mr. MacDougald. It is a very important matter. 
- We are trying our best to get to the fact and want to make sure we 
are treating all witnesses with fairness and professional consideration. 
But, going back to the letter, attached to the letter is a letter that you received  from Doug Collins, who represented the former President, that essentially says, upon 
receipt of that DOJ authorization, that the former President will not seek judicial 
intervention to prevent your testimony or the testimony of the other Department of 
Justice officials who have already received letters from the Department similar to July 
26th, 2021, letter. 
So you attach a letter explicitly from the former President saying that he would 
not seek judicial intervention to prevent you from going forward with this deposition or 
other inquiries from Congress. 11 
Mr. MacDougald. we address the letter and what it means in detail 
in our letter. And we do not agree with the characterization that you just made of that 
letter. We view that letter as directly asserting executive privilege. And the 
nonobjection statement that you read from is expressly conditioned on certain things not 
happening. Those things have happened. 
Furthermore, the President has in fact filed suit asserting executive privilege 
against the committee, and specifically, he referenced his intention of executive privilege 
with respect to former DOJ personnel, such as Mr. Clark. So, under the circumstances, I 
represent a client who asked --the President for whom he worked has unequivocally 
asserted executive privilege. 
I understand that you all don't agree with that, and you think the current 
President has the authority to waive it. We don't agree with that. That's being 
decided in court now. 
Has there been any further communication, direct communication, 
from the former President's representatives to Mr. Clark about executive privilege? 
Mr. MacDougald. I have had no communication with any attorney for Mr. Trump 
about any of this.  Your letter indicates --and I'm looking at pages 2 and 3 --that the 
former President did directly direct other witnesses who have been subpoenaed by the 
subcommittee --Mark Meadows, Dan Scavino, Kash Patel, and Steve 
Bannon --asserting --instructing them not to testify. Did you get any similar 
communication from the former President similarly directing that you not provide 
testimony? 12 
Mr. MacDougald. We contend the August 2nd letter from Mr. Collins on its face 
and in light of subsequent developments constitutes such a direction. 
- And your letter also cites the pending litigation. So, to be clear 
about your position, the pending litigation that the President has filed, Trump v. 
Thompson, in the D.C. district court governs, in your view, your ability to testify to the 
select committee without regard to executive privilege. 
Mr. MacDougald. That's not accurate. 
Okay. Well, help me understand. 
Mr. MacDougald. So the President has asserted executive privilege. He's 
instructed Mr. Clark to assert executive privilege. 
- And your view is --I'm sorry to interrupt you. 
Mr. MacDougald. Yes. 
But that is in the August the 2nd letter? 
Mr. MacDougald. And in light of subsequent developments and in light of 
footnote 2 in their brief, in their original brief in support of the application for preliminary 
injunction. So all those things together clearly instruct Mr. Clark to abide by President 
Trump's invocation of executive privilege. And, as his attorney, I cannot expose him to 
the risk of going against that. 
Let me pause and see if anybody else --go ahead, Jeff.  Mr. Schiff, do you have any questions? 
Mr. Schiff. I do. I just want to make sure that I understand correctly. You 
have not received any communication from the President instructing Mr. Clark to assert 
executive privilege. Is that correct? 
Mr. MacDougald. That is not correct. I've just explained that. 
Mr. Schiff. No, you haven't. So have you received a letter --
Mr. MacDougald. You may not agree with the explanation, but it is an 
explanation. We have a letter from August 2nd asserting --
Mr. Schiff. Well --
Mr. MacDougald. --the privilege. We have subsequent developments that 
invalidate the conditions to testimony -­
Mr. Schiff. Mr. --
Mr. MacDougald. --we have the President's lawsuit. 
Mr. Schiff. Do you have a letter from the President instructing Mr. Clark to 
assert executive privilege? 
Mr. MacDougald. Yes. 
Mr. Schiff. Do you have one or do you not? 
Mr. MacDougald. Yes. It is attached to my letter. 
Mr. Schiff. Is that a letter to Mr. Clark? 
Mr. MacDougald. Yes. It is. 
Mr. Schiff. From the President's counsel instructing him to assert executive 
privilege. 
Mr. MacDougald. That's correct. 
Mr. Schiff. Can I see that letter? 
This is the letter that concludes: Nonetheless, to avoid further distraction and 13  14 
without any way otherwise waive an executive privilege associated with matters the 
committee are purporting to investigate, President Trump will not agree --will agree not 
to seek judicial intervention to prevent your testimony or the testimony of five other 
former Department officials: Richard Donoghue, Patrick Hovakimian, Byung "B.J." Pak, 
Bobby Christine, and Jeffrey Clark. We have already received letters from the 
Department similar to the July 26th letter you received. As long as the committees do 
not seek privileged information from any other Trump administration officials or advisers. 
If the committee do seek such information, however, we will take all necessary 
appropriate steps on President Trump's behalf to defend the Office of the Presidency. 
This is the letter you're referring to? 
Mr. MacDougald. Yes, Mr. Schiff. I apologize for the --
Mr. Schiff. And you are aware that President Trump has not sought judicial 
intervention to prevent Mr. Clark's testimony? 
Mr. MacDougald. Not specifically asking Mr. Clark, but the current lawsuit 
against the committee specifically refers to the invocation of executive privilege as to 
persons like Mr. Clark in footnote 2 of the opening brief in support of their application for 
preliminary injunction, which has been delivered, of course, to committee counsel. 
Mr. Schiff. I just want to make sure that I have the chronology correct. The 
President's counsel wrote to Mr. Clark saying that they would not seek judicial 
intervention to prevent his testimony, and they have not done so. Correct? 
Mr. MacDougald. That is not a fair or accurate summary of the letter. The 
letter attaches conditions to that, and those conditions have not been met. 
Mr. Schiff. Well, if, presumably, Counsel, if the conditions have not been met, 
President Trump was more than capable of seeking judicial intervention to stop 
Mr. Clark's testimony. Correct?  Mr. MacDougald. Yes, Congressman Schiff. 
Mr. Schiff. And he has not done so. Has he? 
Mr. MacDougald. Representative, we disagree with that. And we're not here 
to have an oral argument about these --
Mr. Schiff. Counsel, I am just establishing the facts. 
Mr. MacDougald. Well, the facts are plain in the documents. 15 
Mr. Schiff. And you are aware, Mr. Clark, that those in a higher position in the 
Justice Department, who arguably would have a stronger claim of privilege if there was 
one to be made, have testified before Congress as to the same matters that you are being 
asked to testify? 
The Witness. Mr. MacDougald has answered that question, respectfully, 
Representative Schiff. 
Mr. Schiff. You are aware of that, Mr. MacDougald? 
Mr. MacDougald. Oh, yes. It's addressed in the letter. It's addressed in the 
letter. 
And what I would say to you all is I don't want to get into any kind of a bickering or 
arguing about the contours of executive privilege and whether an argument we have 
made is correct in person verbally. These are very important matters. We have 
worked hard on this letter to assert the objections. And we invite you all to respond to 
us, but we think that dialogue is best conducted in writing because it is so important. 
And it's important to be clear and precise in what we say. 
And our position, we've stated it. We're not answering questions today. We're 
not producing documents today. We are leaving the door open for further dialogue 
about the points being raised in the letter. And I think that's the process that we ought 
to pursue.  16 
Now, you know, the Trump v. Thompson case will ultimately be decided one way 
or the other, and then we'll know where we stand on executive privilege. Both sides will 
know. 
Mr. Schiff. Before I yield back to committee counsel, I just want to state, for the 
record, people in a superior position to Mr. Clark's who were at the Justice Department 
and were his superiors at the time of the events of interest to the committee have 
testified. The current Justice Department and the current President of the United States 
have not asserted privilege, in fact have instructed Mr. Clark they will not assert privilege. 
He has refused to testify. He has refused to testify, not on the basis of any action 
that President Trump has taken to seek judicial intervention in this proceeding. We 
have not received any communication that I'm aware of from the former President 
asserting privilege. 
And Mr. Clark, in my opinion, is asserting --arrogating to himself a decision that 
his superiors disagree with, that the President has not asserted to this committee, and in 
defiance of the lawful process of this committee. 
And I yield back to counsel. 
Mr. MacDougald. And, respectfully, for the record, disagree with Congressman 
Schiff's assertion, but let's leave it there. 
Let me just ask, to follow up on Congressman Schiff's question, has 
there been any effort to confirm your interpretation of the August 2nd letter with the 
former President's counsel? 
Mr. MacDougald. I have indicated previously I have not communicated with 
them, but I can read. 
So the interpretation that you're providing today that the August 
2nd letter is, in fact, a direction not to testify, just based on -- Mr. MacDougald. We go through that in detail in this letter. 
Okay. 
Mr. MacDougald. So there are a number of circumstances that combine the 
direct statements in the letter. 
Beyond that, there --the statement that you all --the committee is relying on 
expressly states that it is not waiving anything, and there are conditions attached. 17 
Those conditions are not being met, and there is pending executive privilege lawsuit that 
specifically refers to people in Mr. Clark's position. 
And, again, Mr. MacDougald, I appreciate that that is your position. 
I think it's important for us, as we consider options, contempt referrals or litigation to 
make a record just to make sure --
Mr. MacDougald. I understand that. 
--that we're clear as to what the basis of the assertion is, on what 
facts or communications it relies. So I don't mean to sound belligerent. I'm just trying 
to ensure that we understand --
Mr. MacDougald. I understand and respect that. You have a job. I have a 
job. 
To that end, we do need to go through, not every question that I 
would have asked, but I do need to flag particular areas that we seek to develop. 
understand your position would be, as I go through those, that you will not answer that 
question due to assertion of executive privilege, but that, Mr. MacDougald, establishes 
the factual basis of what we're seeking as we consider further proceedings. 
Mr. MacDougald. We're not willing to do that. 
Well, again, this is a deposition of the select committee. I have to 
go through and ask some questions that will understandably prompt privilege. But, to  ensure that the court ultimately or the Justice Department has a record of the subject 
matters and can evaluate the privilege claim, it's important for us to put those subject 
matters in the form of questions directly to Mr. Clark. 
Mr. MacDougald. Let me confer with Mr. Clark. 
Do you mind if we step out? 
es. Of course. We'll go off the record. 
[Recess.] 18 
Mr. MacDougald, again, our intention would be just to complete a 
record to ensure that the court or the Department has a clear record of the subject 
matters. And we want to go through those questions, understanding that they will 
trigger an assertion of privilege, but we think it is important to put them to the scope of 
our intended areas of inquiry on the record. 
Mr. MacDougald. Our position is that we have asserted the objection, and 
there's a pending court proceeding that will determine the contours of executive privilege 
with respect to the committee's investigation. And it is premature to engage in that 
exercise and that it is just unproductive to engage these questions. And we invite the 
committee, as we did in the letter, to have some dialogue with us. But, pending 
resolution of that case, we do not think that going through that process that you 
described is productive or worthwhile. It is just not what we are doing. 
As we say in the letter, if the committee in the meantime would like to 
significantly narrow the scope of the inquiry that it wishes to pursue with Mr. Clark, we 
are willing to discuss that and do that. I mean, if it is more narrowly focused on the 
events of January 6th, that's something that we can work with you on. But, right now, 
executive privilege not --Mr. Clark has ethical responsibilities to respect the assertion of 
privilege until this is determined judicially.  19 
You, right now, have no idea exactly what it is I intend to ask 
Mr. Clark because I haven't had a chance yet. We haven't had any negotiations. We 
haven't had any sort of proffer or exchange of information. So it's important, in the 
view of the select committee, to establish for Mr. Clark, for the Department of Justice, 
for potential court to evaluate the claim, to put on the record what the scope of our area 
of inquiry is of Mr. Clark. And, again, I understand that he's not going to provide --is 
unlikely to provide any answers to those questions, and that is his right at this time to 
assert that privilege. 
But, to the extent we are going to challenge the privilege, Mr. MacDougald, we 
need a record that would form the basis of that challenge. 
Mr. MacDougald. One second. 
[Discussion off the record.] 
Mr. MacDougald. The concern that I have, is that, at some point, 
this devolves into badgering the witness. And I would be surprised if the committee 
undertook litigation against Mr. Clark concerning the scope of the executive privilege 
while the Trump v. Thompson case is ongoing. That would be highly duplicative, 
wasteful of resources. And most of those privilege questions can be answered by that 
case. 
And so, with respect to topics, you know, the assertion of privilege, it's --you 
know, my client is in a bind. He's under subpoena. And, yet, the President that he 
worked for has asserted executive privilege. Okay? He cannot testify under those 
circumstances, period. 
And so we've got a court proceeding underway that's going to resolve the scope of 
that. And the prudent thing is to let that play out. And, like I said, in the meantime, if 
the committee would like to significantly narrow the scope of the inquiry, we're certainly  20 
willing to entertain that. And, of course, we are willing to have a dialogue about the 
privilege assertions in the document, and if the committee chose to identify with greater 
specificity in that dialogue what it was seeking, and we could respond and move forward. 
Mr. MacDougald, we haven't had a chance to have this 
conversation because there has been no discussion, no negotiations. 
Mr. MacDougald. One at a time. 
I understand. There is, though, the Miers case clearly rejects a 
blanket assertion of privilege, even when asserted by a sitting President with respect to 
White House counsel. The privilege must be asserted question by question, area by 
area. 
And I understand your point about badgering. I don't intend to badger you or 
Mr. Clark with those questions. 
With that said, it's important to get on the record the areas of inquiry so that a 
court could potentially adjudicate the application of a privilege. 
Mr. MacDougald. I think that if the committee is interested in pursuing the 
inquiry, balancing Mr. Clark's interests in complying with his duties as a lawyer in light of 
President Trump's invocation of the privilege, the fair thing do to Mr. Clark is to let the 
Trump v. Thompson case play out rather than badgering. 
Now, if there is some alternative method of preserving the record, I'm happy to 
discuss that. But I think sitting here for 5 hours while counsel and committee members 
propound questions that we're not going to answer is not a good use of anybody's time. 
And, as far as --and, again, on the timing of this and us not having had a dialogue, before 
I got involved, Mr. Clark asked for a three-week extension. That was not agreed to. 
That's okay. You get to decide, which made the one week you gave me especially 
appreciated when I --when we spoke.  21 
But it is a significant matter. There are weighty and difficult legal issues involved. 
And, you know, I'm not going to let Mr. Clark produce either attorney-client or executive 
privilege or any other privileges in response to these questions. I don't know where that 
line is going to end up. So I have to protect him. So we are just not going to answer 
the questions. 
I understand. We're talking past each other. I'm not trying to 
talk you out of your position at this point. I'm simply trying to establish a record that 
can be considered by the select committee first and ultimately potentially by the Attorney 
General of the United States if there's a criminal contempt referral or a Federal judge if 
there is some sort of effort civilly to enforce the subpoena. We don't have that 
complete record at this point. I'm not saying that any of that's going to happen, but we 
need to create a record to consider next steps. So it's not meant to be badgering. 
understand.  22 
[11:00 a.m.] 
Mr. MacDougald. Okay. And my suggestion and request to the committee is to 
make that record after the decision is made in Trump v. Thompson, and you'll know 
where we stand. 
But we are not necessarily going to wait for Trump v. Thompson to 
be resolved before we seek enforcement action, and that's why we need to make the 
record today. 
And, again, I understand that these questions will prompt, according to what 
you've said thus far, some kind of executive privilege assertion. I want to make sure we 
understand the basis of that assertion and that you understand and that ultimately a 
court understands what are the areas that we seek to develop with Mr. Clark. 
Again, not meant to be badgering. It's just essentially clarifying our positions and 
creating a record for others to review thereafter. 
So let me just --
Mr. MacDougald. We are not going to participate in that , and we 
are concluded, and we are leaving. 
So, to be clear, you're refusing to answer any of these questions or 
even go through and assert privilege question by question --
Mr. MacDougald. Correct. 
--based on the representations in the letter and -­
Mr. MacDougald. Correct. 
--a blanket assertion? 
Mr. MacDougald. Correct. 
Go ahead, Mr. Clark.  23 
The Witness. The blanket assertion point is inaccurate. The points are made in 
the letter. Mr. MacDougald has made the points, and we're going over the same thing 
again and again, and it's not productive. And so you'll see that the letter makes the 
arguments about what would be prudent and efficient from this, you know, point 
forward, and that's what we're going to stand on. 
Uh-huh. 
Mr. MacDougald. And we're --you know, we will engage in that dialogue with 
you, as invited in the letter, but the process that you contemplated today will not go 
forward. 
Let me stop again and see if anyone else has any questions. 
Mr. Schiff. I do have one question. Well, a couple of questions. 
So, counsel, on behalf of your client, are you refusing to answer any questions 
today regarding the subject matter of our committee? 
Mr. MacDougald. Our position is stated in the letter, Congressman. 
Mr. Schiff. And, just for clarity, are you refusing to answer any questions about 
the subject matter of January 6th to our committee? 
Mr. MacDougald. Well, actually, our letter invites the committee to narrow its 
scope to the events of January 6th. 
Mr. Schiff. But, counsel, you're refusing today --
Mr. MacDougald. But the committee has not done that. 
Mr. Schiff. Well, counsel for the committee was endeavoring to go through the 
questions and find out what your client would answer and what they would not. 
Do I understand your position today is that you are giving a blanket refusal to 
answer any questions about the events of January 6th to this committee? 
The Witness. Representative Schiff, you're mischaracterizing our position. That  question has been asked and answered about six times now. 
Mr. Schiff. Well, then --
The Witness. If I had a transcript, I could count them. 
Mr. Schiff. Then do you object to our asking you questions today about 
January 6th? 
The Witness. We've already answered that question. We think --
Mr. Schiff. So then you're refusing to answer questions today. Just want to 
establish a very clean record. You're refusing to answer any questions today about 
January 6th? 
The Witness. We think that you need to have a dialogue with Mr. MacDougald 
about that before that proceeds. 
Mr. Schiff. So --24 
Mr. MacDougald. You can take that up if the scope is narrowed. But, as we sit, 
the scope is not narrowed. 
Mr. Schiff. Well, counsel, this would be an opportunity for you to narrow the 
scope and answer questions --
Mr. MacDougald. It's not for me to narrow the scope. 
Mr. Schiff. Answer questions that you believe are within the scope and refuse, 
and then we can decide what repercussion from that refusal. But, today, you are 
refusing to answer any questions whether they're within your perceived idea of the scope 
of the committee or not. Is that correct? 
Mr. MacDougald. We have asserted our position that we're not answering 
questions today. We've invited the committee to engage in a dialogue with us about 
narrowing the scope. That invitation remains open. 
Mr. Schiff. Well -- 25 
Mr. MacDougald. But, as of this moment, the scope has not been narrowed, and 
the --our position remains as previously stated. 
Mr. Schiff. Well, let me ask one illustrative question, then. 
Mr. Clark, in your letter to the committee, you state you gave an interview to the 
press about January 6th, and your comments were not included in the article, and you 
expressed some dissatisfaction that your comments about January 6 were not included in 
the Bloomberg article. 
What were your comments to the press about January 6th? 
Mr. MacDougald. I think that's stated in the letter. 
Mr. Schiff. No, it isn't. 
What were your comments to the press about January 6th? 
The Witness. It is stated in the letter, so that stands as the answer. 
Mr. Schiff. Well, would you please tell us what those comments were? 
The Witness. It's what the letter says, Representative. 
Mr. Schiff. The letter doesn't tell us what you told the reporter, so I'm asking 
you: What did you tell the reporter -­
The Witness. That's --
Mr. Schiff. --about January 6th. 
The Witness. That's not accurate, Representative Schiff. If you read the letter, 
it represents what was stated to the reporter. 
Mr. Schiff. Well, read to me from the letter what it is you told the reporter 
about January 6th, then, if it's included --
The Witness. Respectfully, Representative Schiff, I think that request, you know, 
to have me read something that's in a letter that you have is badgering. It crosses the 
line into that.  Mr. Schiff. Well, Mr. Clark, it's not in the letter. 
And is it your position, counsel, that somehow Mr. Clark can assert executive 
privilege over statements he gave to the press on behalf of the former President? 26 
Mr. MacDougald. We made reference to that in the letter, Congressman, in the 
context of inviting the committee to narrow the scope. We're happy to have that 
discussion, but it needs to occur in writing so that we know where we stand. 
Mr. Schiff. My question is --
Mr. MacDougald. This is an important matter for Mr. Clark, and I'm advising 
him --I'm trying to protect him, and I'm --we're going to do that based on a scope that is 
set forth in writing that we can analyze and decide whether we're going to object to it or 
not. 
Mr. Schiff. My --
Mr. MacDougald. We don't have that, and I'm not going to let him answer those 
questions. 
Mr. Schiff. Counsel, you would agree, would you not, that statements your client 
made to the press are not covered by any conceivable privilege? Can we agree on that? 
Mr. MacDougald. Hypothetically. 
Mr. Schiff. Are you objecting, nonetheless, to his answering questions about 
what he told the press about January 6th that were not included in an article? 
Mr. MacDougald. I am objecting to the way the committee is proceeding with 
respect to Mr. Clark. You have a very broad-scope subpoena that has not been 
narrowed, and we have invited the committee to narrow the scope and expressed a 
willingness to testify more narrowly about January 6th. 
We're not going to do that on the fly. We'll have a dialogue with the committee 
as counsel, and we will proceed in an orderly manner to resolve that scope issue. But  27 
we're not going to do it on the fly in this deposition. 
Mr. Schiff. Before I yield back to counsel, I'd like the record to reflect the witness 
today refuses to answer any questions about January 6th, including questions as to 
comments he made to the press that could not be even conceivably, I think as counsel 
has acknowledged, within the realm of privilege. 
And, with that, I yield back to committee counsel. 
Mr. MacDougald, with all due respect, Mr. Clark has been 
subpoenaed to appear before this committee. It is a legal obligation, on a date certain, 
to answer questions. That does not include a legal obligation by the committee to 
negotiate, or to set forth in advance particular subject matters. It's a legal obligation to 
show up and answer questions, or to assert a privilege in response to specific questions. 
My understanding is that, despite that legal obligation and an offer to go through 
the questions and assert a privilege point by point, he's refusing to answer any such 
questions. I just want to make clear that that is his position. 
The Witness. The letter explains our position, and the letter is not based 
exclusively on executive privilege. You need to read the letter, respectfully, Mr. Heaphy, 
very carefully. 
Well, Mr. Clark, I just got the letter when you walked in the door -­
The Witness. And that's why we're proposing that we depart for today. 
But you have a legal obligation to be here today to answer 
questions. 
The Witness. I think, if you read the letter, you will see that even that is in 
dispute. 
I think your position is, again, a blanket assertion and refusal to 
answer -- The Witness. You continue to try to characterize my position as if it were that, 
but that's a mischaracterization, and we do not accept that. 28 
- Before we go off the record, let me see if anyone else --Mr. Raskin, 
Mr. Kinzinger, Ms. Cheney --have any questions. 
Mr. Raskin. I just wonder if Mr. Clark's counsel has any authority for the 
proposition that he can categorically refuse to answer any questions as opposed to 
invoke the privilege he says he has with respect to the specific questions. 
Mr. MacDougald. Our legal authority is set forth in the letter, Congressman. 
Mr. Raskin. Well, the letter seems to be the magic solution for everything, but 
could you name the Supreme Court decision that you're refusing to? 
Mr. MacDougald. Congressman Raskin, as I previously stated, we're not going to 
engage in legal debate or argument over this. We've set forth a written objection. The 
committee can respond to it in writing, and we'll deal with that at that time. But we're 
not going to do Q&A on legal points in this deposition. 
Mr. Raskin. Okay. Well, then, I will just state for the record that the 
subpoenaed witness has refused to answer any questions of fact. He's refused to 
engage in any questions and interpreting any questions of law and continually refers to 
the letter that they gave us today. So I would just say I think that this witness is 
categorically refusing to engage in any of the obligations that he's required to engage in. 
And I'll yield back. 
Yeah. Mr. Kinzinger, go ahead. 
Mr. Kinzinger. Just --yeah. Just a real quick --and, since the letter is the focus, 
can you tell me when this letter, if you would, was completed? Did you finish it 
5 minutes prior to coming in at 10 o'clock, being as you had a legal obligation to show up 
today, and is that why we just got this at this moment --your legal obligation was  29 
completed just a couple minutes ago --or had you had this in hand a few days prior when 
maybe you could have shared it and we would have been, you know, better armed to 
discuss since this is the only thing you're willing to discuss? 
Mr. MacDougald. Thank you, Congressman. 
You may not have been tuned in earlier when I explained to- my 
apology for giving this to him just this morning. 
I was just engaged last week. We've been working continuously on this letter up 
through yesterday afternoon, late, and I've been conferring with Mr. Clark. So I've been 
continuously involved in the preparation of this letter since sometime last week. 
I can't remember what day I first got started, but it was just late. We didn't have 
time. We were working on it up through yesterday. 
And I apologize to the committee and to counsel and committee staff for any 
inconvenience that the late delivery of this position may have caused. But I'm doing the 
best I can. It's just me. It's just me trying to help Mr. Clark, and I've done everything 
that I could to get this ready in the time that I had available, and that went up almost to 
the last minute. 
Other members? Ms. Cheney, anything from you? 
Ms. Cheney. Thank you very much-yes. I'd like to ask the witness when 
he first met Congressman Scott Perry? 
Mr. MacDougald. I will assert the privilege objection to that question, 
respectfully, Congressman Cheney. 
Ms. Cheney. And what's the basis for the privilege assertion about your meeting 
a Member of Congress? 
Mr. MacDougald. The privilege objection is set forth in the letter, Congressman. 
It's a detailed legal question, and the parameters of the privileges that attend aides and  30 
advisers to the President extends in many directions. We understand that's disputed by 
the committee, and it's a particular application. But pending the resolution of the 
Trump v. Thompson case, we're not willing to answer any questions of that nature until 
we know exactly where the line is. 
Ms. Cheney. And I'd like to also know when, Mr. Clark, you became engaged in 
the debates about the Georgia election procedure? 
Mr. MacDougald. Same objection. 
Ms. Cheney. I'm sorry. Could you please state that for the record? 
Mr. MacDougald. Same objection, Congressman --Representative. I called you 
a Congressman a minute ago. I apologize. 
Ms. Cheney. So what objection is that? You're claiming executive privilege 
with respect to your knowledge about Georgia election procedures? 
Mr. MacDougald. You're talking about me or Mr. Clark? 
Ms. Cheney. I'm talking about Mr. Clark, your client. 
Mr. MacDougald. We assert privileges in the letter that cover that, 
Representative. 
Ms. Cheney. Did you have any interaction with any other Members of Congress? 
Mr. MacDougald. Same objection, respectfully. 
Ms. Cheney. And in terms of your assertions about Dominion voting machines 
and smart thermostats, could you explain where you got that information? 
Mr. MacDougald. Same objection, respectfully. 
Ms. Cheney. So I just want to be clear that I want the record to show that 
Mr. Clark is refusing to answer any questions, including those questions that have nothing 
to do with any of his interaction with the President, questions that couldn't conceivably 
be covered by any assertion of executive privilege.  31 
And, with that, I'll yield back, 
Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Aguilar, Ms. Luria, Ms. Lofgren? 
Ms. Lofgren. I'm fine. 
No? Okay. 
Just a couple of things. The subpoena also today was to produce documents as 
well as deposition testimony. Are there any documents --and this may be covered in 
the letter, but, again, haven't had a chance to read it --that you have that are responsive 
to produce to the select committee? 
Mr. MacDougald. We are asserting the objection as to all the document 
requests, and noting in the letter that there is very substantial overlap between the 
letters --the documents requested from the Archives --
Okay. 
Mr. MacDougald. --and the documents requested from Mr. Clark. 
Uh-huh. 
Mr. MacDougald. And, consequently, we do not have any responsive documents 
for you today. 
Okay. So very substantial overlap suggests that there are some 
documents that Mr. Clark possesses that are not included in the Archives. 
Mr. MacDougald. Well, that's not right. Whether he has custody or control of 
the document is one thing. 
Uh-huh. 
Mr. MacDougald. Whether it's covered in the request at the Archives is another. 
We specifically --and I think this was the product of an email that I 
sent you --have been interested in his use of a personal email 
Was there any use of that email for subject matters related to the select  committee's inquiry, and have those documents been identified as responsive? 
[Witness conferred with counsel.] 
The Witness. I'll answer. 
Mr. MacDougald. He'll answer the question. 32 
The Witness. So my strong recollection, right --and we're talking about events 
that are closing on a year ago --is that that's not an email address that I established. 
That's an email address that the tech contractors who had offices inside DOJ for the Civil 
Division established, and that that was used for purposes of, you know --so, if I would do 
an argument --and I did several arguments, including in those months --I wouldn't tend to 
do it from my desk. I would tend to do it either from a side desk that I had, or from the 
conference room. 
And so I would have the tech person set up a loaner laptop, and then I would email 
him the Zoom link or whatever, you know, the instrumentality was. And then I think --so 
that --I think he would open that account on the loaner laptop, and then, you know, 
connect to the court link for the argument. So I think that's what that account is for. 
I did make an effort to see if, you know --I have senses of kind of like what 
passwords might be, could I log into that, and I couldn't. And I suspect, again, based on 
my best recollection as I sit here, that the reason why I couldn't log in is I didn't create the 
account, so I don't know what the password is. 
Did you use a gmail account, a personal email account, to conduct 
any official business during your time at the Department? 
The Witness. I think that, on that, we're going to stand on the letter. 
How about personal cell phone? Were there communications, text 
messages that you might possess responsive to the subpoena on a personal device? 
The Witness. Same as the last -- 33 
Mr. MacDougald. Same objection. 
So, to be clear, no documents have been produced, and the letter 
indicates that, to the extent that documents in your possession are responsive, they're 
being withheld on the same assertion of executive privilege? 
Mr. MacDougald. Correct. And the other privileges identified in the letter. 
There are other privileges identified in the letter, but the executive privilege is the front 
and center. 
Okay. What are they? I'm sorry. Again --
Mr. MacDougald. Well, there is a --we enumerate, and I believe these are all 
subsidiary to the executive --
That's my question. Are they all within the executive -­
The Witness. No. 
Mr. MacDougald. Well, no. That's a subtle legal point. 
The Witness. Yeah. I would say no. I think that you should look at the 
enumeration, and we stand on that. 
Mr. MacDougald. And then we reserve any other objections or rights that he may 
have under the Constitution or otherwise. 
All right. So --
Mr. Schiff. If I could just --
Yes. 
Mr. Schiff. --follow up on that question. 
What privilege are you asserting would apply to enable you to refuse to answer a 
question about whether you used personal electronic devices in the course of your 
government business? 
Mr. MacDougald. We're asserting privileges set forth in the letter, Congressman.  34 
Mr. Schiff. And what privilege in particular, because you refer to a number of 
privileges? So, for this specific question --that is, whether Mr. Clark used personal 
devices to communicate government business --which specific privilege enables Mr. Clark 
to refuse to answer that question? 
Mr. MacDougald. Given the lack of specificity of the question, we can do no more 
than allude to the privileges that are asserted in the letter, which are the full panoply of 
executive, Federal law enforcement, and so on, privileges that are in the letter, and plus 
the reservation that we've made. So, you know, I --again, with respect, Congressman, we 
do not want to engage in a debate or a law school set of hypotheticals about this. 
Mr. Schiff. Well, counsel, you said my question wasn't very specific. Let me try 
to make it very, very specific. 
Mr. Clark, did you use personal electronic devices to conduct government business 
while you were at the Department of Justice? Yes or no? 
The Witness. This has been asked and answered, Representative. 
Mr. Schiff. I don't have an answer, so would you please answer the question for 
me? 
Mr. MacDougald. We would object based on privileges set forth in the letter, 
Congressman. 
Mr. Schiff. And, counsel, which specific privilege entitles this witness to refuse to 
answer a question about whether he used personal devices --I'm not asking about the 
content, not asking about communications with the President, but merely the simple fact 
of whether he used personal electronic devices to conduct government business. What 
specific privilege are you asserting that gives him the right to refuse to answer that 
question? 
Mr. MacDougald. We rest on the privileges asserted in the letter, Congressman.  35 
We object. 
Mr. Schiff. Let the record reflect that counsel has cited no particular privilege to 
refuse to answer that question. 
So, Mr. MacDougald, I'm just looking at the letter, again, not having 
a chance yet to read it carefully. And, on page 2, it says, the general category of executive 
privilege, the specific categories of Presidential communications, law enforcement, and 
deliberative process privileges, as well as attorney-client privilege, and the work product 
doctrine, all harmonize on this point. Is that the universe of privileges that that sentence 
that I just read from your letter that Mr. Clark is asserting today? 
Mr. MacDougald. Well, the --you should read the entire letter 
I appreciate that, but I'm --again, not having had a chance to do 
that, I just want to make sure it's clear on the record. 
Mr. MacDougald. Well, we think the letter is clear, and the letter is on the record. 
At the time of these events, Mr. Clark was an employee of the 
Department of Justice, right, and his client was the people of the United States, not 
President Trump or anyone else. So help me understand how any attorney-client 
privilege could possibly be implicated when a Department of Justice official, a member of 
the executive branch, in the course of his professional responsibilities, is engaged in talking 
to his superiors or anyone else within the executive branch? 
Mr. MacDougald. I will say maybe for the fifth or sixth time, we're 
not going to engage in legal argument on these points in the deposition. If you want to 
engage in legal argument in letters or court filings, we're happy to do that, but we're not 
going to do it in this deposition, 
Yeah 
Mr. MacDougald. And so I think we have, you know, reached an impasse and,  36 
consequently, we --
The Witness. I --
Mr. Raskin. I have two follow-up --
The Witness. I would say that we've not reached an impasse, and there have been 
repeated attempts to characterize the position as absolutist. It's not. We're inviting a 
dialogue in the letter. But, for today, I think that we're done. 
Mr. MacDougald. We're done. 
The Witness. Yeah. 
Mr. MacDougald. We're done for the day. 
Mr. Raskin, go ahead. 
Mr. Raskin. Well, I just want to follow up on your question about the 
attorney-client privilege. 
Who is the attorney, and who is the client that are covered by the attorney-client 
privilege being invoked in the letter? 
Mr. MacDougald. It's asked and answered. The privilege is set forth in the 
letter. 
Mr. Raskin. Well, forgive me, because I'm not in the room right now. The letter 
arrived late, thank you for your apology about that, but one way to make that apology 
meaningful might be to restate the point of your own letter. Who is the attorney, and 
who is the client in the attorney-client privilege being asserted in your letter? 
Mr. MacDougald. We're happy to engage in that dialogue in correspondence with 
committee counsel, but we're not going to do it in the deposition, Congressman. 
Mr. Raskin. Wow. Okay. 
I yield back to you,. Thanks. 
Okay. Well, I can tell you, Mr. MacDougald, that we're not going to  37 
conclude the deposition. I think what we'd like to do is take a recess, look again at your 
letter temporarily and reconvene, maybe in an hour or so. I understand the position, but, 
again, we have been given a letter with very substantial legal arguments that we just need 
a minute --more than a minute --
Mr. MacDougald. I think you need more than a minute. I mean -­
- Yeah. 
Mr. MacDougald. --to be fair to the witness, it will --you need to let us go, and 
then you all study it and figure out what you want to say about it, and then we'll respond. 
Yeah. We --
- Respectfully, that's not the way it works. The witness was . 
subpoenaed to be here today. Whether it's an inconvenience for him to wait an hour or 
so while the committee and the staff discuss this, he doesn't have any right to avoid being 
inconvenienced by a brief delay like that. 
The Witness. So I think the response on that is I see no indication, from the fact 
that the same questions are being asked over and over again, that anything is going to 
change as a result of that. So, you know, we --we're going to depart at this point. We 
have the dialogue. We want it to be open. You can come back to us. 
And we recognize that the letter will require your study, but, you know, you've also 
placed me in a position where you did not give the full extension that was requested in 
light of personal circumstances and in light of, you know, the situation that's --I have to 
deal with in terms of managing life generally, and so, I think, at this point, we would like to 
conclude things, and that's our position. 
Again, that's not a closed door. It's an open door to dialogue. 
Mr. Clark, with all due respect, the door has been open since July 
when the Department of Justice wrote you a letter. I first personally reached out to your  counsel in August. The indication was that perhaps you would come in for a voluntary 
interview. And, when that ultimately was not something to which you agreed, the 
committee issued you a subpoena with a legal obligation. 38 
You changed counsel, and we gave your new counsel a brief indulgence because he 
had just been retained. And, as a matter of professional courtesy to Mr. MacDougald, we 
gave you an extra week. 
But, with all due respect, we have been willing to talk with you, work with you, 
wanted to do this voluntarily since this summer. So this is not a last-minute attempt to 
force you without ample notice of our interest to answer questions on the record. Our 
efforts in good faith to engage with you extend 4 months. 
The Witness. So, as the letter indicates, I had been reviewing various things, 
studying legal doctrines, conferring with counsel, so we have similarly proceeded in good 
faith, and we continue to want to proceed in good faith. 
But, for today, you know, sitting here to have the same questions be asked and for 
attempts to, you know, respectfully, to be made to mischaracterize our position, that's not 
something that it seems to be prudent to continue to do. 
The Rules of the House provide that the chair will rule on objections 
or assertions of privilege. The chair has not yet had an opportunity to rule. Part of the 
reason for a brief recess and discussion with the chairman is to get --again, this is all part 
of completing our record such that the committee can consider other options. 
So we can stand in recess subject to the call of the chair. We're not concluding the 
deposition. But the Rules of the House provide a recess subject to the call of the chair as 
we consult with him and seek his potential ruling on your executive privilege assertion. 
The Witness. That involves procedures that you will decide how to invoke, and, 
you know --but, in terms of our presence, though, we're going to depart. We've made  39 
our position clear, and we've made our willingness to engage in a dialogue from this point 
forward clear, and I think that's where we stand. 
- Before I go --yeah, go ahead, Mr. Raskin. 
Mr. Raskin .• , what I would just say is that what I'm taking from the 
representation is that Mr. Clark's lawyer has declared us at an impasse, and Mr. Clark has 
declared that they're going to leave despite the fact that they're being told to stay under 
the rules of the committee. 
That is precisely my interpretation. 
The Witness. Much like --much like our dispute about the notion of absolutism, 
the notion that we're at an impasse is also a mischaracterization. I've repeatedly said and 
the letter says that the dialogue remains open. 
Mr. Schiff. And, counsel, I just want to add to the record that we were presented 
with this letter right --
At 10 o'clock 
Mr. Schiff. --at 10 o'clock this morning. Counsel apologized for the late delivery 
of this letter, yet counsel has insisted that a one-hour recess to consider the letter further 
and consult with the chairman of the committee is beyond their willingness to 
accommodate, and it is their intention to walk out of the deposition notwithstanding the 
deposition continues. 
I yield back to counsel. 
- Again, my view is precisely the same as Mr. Raskin's and Mr. Schiff's. 
Disappointing, but we will consider you to have left the deposition that is subject to recall 
by the chair. 
Mr. MacDougald. Okay. 
[Mr. Clark and Mr. MacDougald left the deposition at 11:29 a.m.]  40 
Okay. We're still on the record, Ms. Lofgren. I just want to make 
sure that there are things that are entered for the record, right. 
Exhibit 1 is the letter to Mr. Clark that was sent by the Department of Justice on 
July 26th, 2021, which I'd ask that we mark and be part of the record as exhibit 1. 
I believe exhibit 2 will be the letter that Mr. MacDougald delivered to the select 
committee today. 
I don't think we need the subpoena to be an exhibit. That's already part of the 
committee's record. 
- We're okay because he showed up. 
He did. So those two exhibits and the DOJ letter and his letter to us 
will be formally part of the record of the deposition. 
[Clark Exhibit No. 1 
Was marked for identification.] 
[Clark Exhibit No. 2 
Was marked for identification.] 
And, before we go off the record, is there any other 
representations here, Mr. Schiff? 
Mr. Schiff. I would just like to include in the record a copy of the Bloomberg 
article that counsel for Mr. Clark references in which, per counsel's letter, Mr. Clark was 
disappointed it didn't include his discussion of January 6th, the interview that was 
published. 
He summarizes that conversation with the reporter, but was unwilling today to 
discuss even what he told the reporter during that interview, and failed to identify any 
privilege that would cover, even conceivably, an interview that Mr. Clark gave with the 
press about January 6.  And I would like that to be included in the record. 
[Clark Exhibit No. 3 
Was marked for identification.] 
I appreciate that. 41 
What I would propose to do quickly is to go through the exercise that he refused 
to indulge and just put on the record the areas that I intended to develop with him, just, 
again, so that, for consideration by a court or by DOJ, at least the subject matters that we 
intended to develop are reflected in an official proceeding. 
And I just want to make sure that the record reflected when the 
witness left. It did. 
Okay. So --and this won't take 5 hours, as Mr. Clark suggested, 
but I intended to develop with him a series of questions about documents, what he 
maintains, his use of personal devices or emails, to get a little bit more information about 
categories of responsive information that he maintains, whether or not he was 
withholding any of them on a privilege basis. He has not produced any documents or a 
privilege log to the committee. 
I then intended to develop very simple things about his background, his 
professional background, his educational background, his current employment. 
I would have proceeded then to questions about the institutional role of the 
Department of Justice in matters of election integrity. There was a November 9th 
memo from Attorney General Barr to the Department that authorized U.S. attorneys 
offices to investigate credible allegations of voter fraud. I wanted to ask him about the 
Civil Division or the Environment of Natural Resources Division having any role in voter 
fraud investigations. 
I wanted to ask him about communications he had with President Trump, from his  42 
initial introduction to President Trump, which we think occurred sometime in December 
of 2020, the role of Congressman Perry or Mark Meadows in facilitating that introduction, 
what they discussed, whether it was about the election or otherwise; who else might 
have participated in the communication with President Trump, and the specific 
representations of that discussion. 
We wanted to talk to him about the White House contacts policy and the fact that 
his communications with the President violated that White House policy, and the fact that 
he didn't notify Attorney General Rosen or Deputy Attorney General Donaghue of those 
communications. 
We wanted to talk about the reaction by the Department of Justice leadership to 
their discovery of that meeting, any representations he made to them. 
We then wanted to talk specifically about efforts that he took, proposed that the 
Department take with respect to election fraud. We wanted to ask him, for instance, 
about an ODNI briefing that he sought about alleged interference with Dominion voting 
machines by the Chinese Government, and a draft letter to Georgia officials that he put 
forth that asked the Department, or was the Department asking Georgia legislative 
officials to convene a special session and consider the appointment of an alternate slate 
of electors. We intended to go through specific representations in that draft letter and 
ask for their basis. 
I also wanted to ask him about metadata in that draft letter that indicates some 
involvement with the White House Communications Agency and the drafting or 
preparation of that letter. 
I also wanted to ask him about the response to that proposal from Mr. Rosen and 
Mr. Clark, which was very strongly negative, Mr. Donaghue's indication that it was 
factually inaccurate because the Department was not investigating serious allegations of  43 
fraud, and institutionally, it would be inappropriate for the Department to suggest to a 
State that it convene its legislature in a special session, get his reaction to Mr. Donaghue's 
criticism of those two proposals. 
I wanted to ask him about a December 28th meeting --subsequent meeting with 
Rosen and Donaghue about additional conversations with the White House about the 
Georgia draft letter or other possible steps to take --that the Department would take to 
intervene in the counting of the votes. 
I wanted to ask him specifically about whether he had any involvement in the 
appointment of a special counsel, the possibility of holding a press conference to 
announce the Department's involvement, or the Department's joining a Supreme Court 
case as a potential plaintiff despite other professionals in the Department indicating that 
the Department had no standing. 
We ultimately wanted to ask him about efforts by the President to install him as 
Acting Attorney General, the basis for that possibility, his discussions with the President 
about actions he might take if he were appointed as Acting Attorney General. There 
was a --wanted to ask him ultimately about a meeting in the Oval Office with the 
President and others at which his possible appointment as Acting Attorney General was 
discussed and when the President ultimately decided not to make a change and appoint 
Mr. Clark as the Acting Attorney General. 
Finally, we wanted to ask him a series of questions about things beyond his 
interactions with the President. For instance, his potential involvement in meetings in 
advance of January 6th with campaign officials, with lawyers who purported to represent 
the former President, who had come up with theories as to the Vice President's authority 
to reject slates of electors. 
We wanted to ask him about the Willard War Room and communications with  44 
Steve Bannon, Rudy Giuliani, Bernie Kerik, John Eastman, and others. We wanted to ask 
him about what he did and what he was aware of on January 6th itself. We wanted to 
ask him about further interactions at any time he had with the Chief of Staff Mark 
Meadows, including Mr. Meadows' travel to Georgia, and interaction with Georgia State 
officials. 
We wanted to ask Mr. Clark about any campaign activities or discussions with 
representatives of the Trump campaign, Bill Stepien, and Jason Miller. 
We wanted to get his substantive view on the Eastman memos. The Eastman 
memos put forward the theory that the Vice President need not certify the slates of 
electors that were put forth and were pending his review on January the 6th. 
We wanted to ask him about any discussions he had with various State officials in 
Georgia, in Pennsylvania, or elsewhere. 
We wanted to ask him about interaction with a man named John Lott, who 
worked at the Department of Justice and wrote a memo that involved some allegations of 
voter fraud. 
And we wanted to ask him about the Gohmert v. Pence litigation, the one matter 
in which the Department did intervene, but simply to indicate that there was no standing 
by the plaintiff, Congressman Gohmert, to bring that litigation. Mr. Clark actually signed 
the pleading indicating that the Department --the Department's view that Mr. Gohmert 
had no standing, and the case should be dismissed. 
Let me stop and see if any of my colleagues have additional subject matters that 
they wanted to flag so that the record reflects the universe of things that we wanted to 
develop with Mr. Clark. -or-anything? 
- Nope. 
No.  45 
The only caveat I'd have to all of that was that that is what we 
intended to ask him as of now, but that this is an ongoing investigation. We continue to 
develop new facts and seek documents that we haven't yet received, and that that may 
not ultimately be the final universe of subject matters for Mr. Clark. But that is what we 
intended to ask him about today. 
And, of course, any other questions that would come up as a result 
of things that Mr. Clark told us in the deposition. 
Yeah. 
For the record --I suppose it's clear, but to make it crystal clear, I proposed going 
through that list on the record with Mr. Clark so that he and his lawyer would have a 
sense of the subject matters and would articulate in response to each category the basis 
for his assertion of executive privilege. He refused to indulge, walked out of the 
deposition before we had a chance to ask those questions. 
So I'm now simply making this for the record, but not for Mr. Clark, because he 
has left the deposition. 
All right. Anything else that anyone has before we go off the record? ., 
anything? 
Mr. Schiff, any other statements that we want to make sure are reflected in the 
official record? 
Mr. Schiff. Well, I know our committee wanted to ask, among other questions, 
whether he had destroyed or erased any cell phone or other digital device during the 
course of 2021. But, as he would not even answer questions as to whether he used 
personal devices for the conduct of government business, he did not allow us the 
opportunity to ask that line of questioning either. 
I viewed his refusal as categorical, without even an assertion of privilege or a  46 
claimed assertion of privilege, but a constant reference to a letter, a letter that, in and of 
itself, was not from the former President directing him not to testify. There has been no 
legal action by the former President to intervene in this proceeding. 
Given that his colleagues in the Justice Department in higher positions of authority 
have testified and his refusal even to answer questions about his statements about 
January 6th made to the press, those refusals at least strike this member of the 
committee as not in good faith, and I yield back. 
Yeah. Any other Members? Yes? Mrs. Luria. 
Mrs. Luria. I just wanted to add for the record that, you know, although he 
referred to the letter numerous times and refused to answer the vast majority of 
questions, I felt that he negated his claim to privilege by actually --his universal claim to 
privilege for every question by actually answering a select question about the abuse of 
the gmail account. 
So, although he claimed overall privilege, he did negate that on his own by 
answering a single question, and so that --I just wanted to place that that was my 
impression on the record. 
Uh-huh. All right. Any other members of the committee? 
Yeah. And I'll say that this record will remain open and that we are just going to --the 
deposition will stand in recess subject to the call of the chair, so the record will not be 
closed, but does anyone else have anything now to add? No? 
I think I made my points about the state of engagement with Mr. Clark. The 
select committee reached out to him through counsel back in August. We repeatedly 
sought his voluntary cooperation, and it wasn't until he indicated he would not agree to a 
date for a voluntary cooperation that we moved to issue him a subpoena 
He changed counsel very late, only about a week ago. Mr. MacDougald was  retained a week ago, but he had previous counsel with whom we were very directly 
engaged on multiple occasions. 47 
All right. Then I think we can go off the record at this point with the caveat that 
the deposition will stand in recess subject to the call of the chair. 
[Whereupon, at 11:43 a.m., the deposition was recessed, subject to the call of the 
chair.]  48 
[4:15 p.m.] 
Chairman Thompson. So we will reconvene the deposition of Jeffrey Bossert 
Clark. 
The committee will come to order. 
I understand that he Select Committee's Chief Investigative Counsel, 
can update the committee on additional communications with Mr. Clark's attorney. 
And I now recognize 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
Upon the postponement or the recess of --not postponement --the recess of the 
deposition this morning, I immediately reached out to Harry MacDougald, who's counsel 
to Mr. Clark. Called him. His cell phone, voice mail was full. Sent him a text 
message, asking him to call me. And then sent an email, essentially letting him know we 
were going to reconvene at 4:00 o'clock for the purpose of you, Mr. Chairman, 
considering and ruling upon his objection, and received an email response from 
Mr. MacDougald at 3:25 p.m., indicating that he was already en route back to his office in 
Atlanta. 
He said it will not be possible for us to return at 4:00. He could not allow 
Mr. Clark to appear without counsel. And then he sets forth some specific objections to 
the process, the rules of the House which have the chairman ruling on objections. 
And I will make that email exchange part of the record as an exhibit to the 
deposition. 
Chairman Thompson. Thank you very much. 
Earlier today, Mr. Clark's attorney, Harry MacDougald, delivered to the 
Select Committee a letter asserting blanket privileges and objecting to Mr. Clark's further  49 
participation in the subpoenaed deposition. 
Pursuant to House Deposition Authority Regulation 7, a witness may refuse to 
answer questions only to preserve a privilege. That same authority empowers the chair 
to rule on any objection. 
Do we want to recognize other members? If so, we could open the floor for 
discussion. I know Mr. Raskin, who's in a CBC meeting, had indicated he wanted to say 
something or potentially. 
Does any other member wish to be heard on the objection? 
Ms. Lofgren. I think it's quite clear that Mr. Clark has failed to adhere to the 
subpoena, the Rules of the House, the precedence in law, in statute, and is completely 
acting in a lawless way. 
Chairman Thompson. Well, I thank the gentlelady. And the chair, at this point, 
is prepared to rule on the objection. 
As I stated in a letter I sent to Mr. Clark's attorney this afternoon, Mr. Clark does 
not enjoy categorical claims of privilege across every elements of the Select Committee 
investigation as authorized by House Resolution 503. 
Accordingly, I overrule the objections asserted by Mr. Clark and direct the witness 
to answer the questions posed by members and committee counsel, asserting relevant 
specific privileges on a question-by-question basis. 
Since the witness has decided not to reappear pursuant to notice, my ruling will 
be communicated to Mr. Clark in writing. The chair will allow Mr. Clark, until Tuesday, 
to cooperate with my direction to answer the Select Committee's questions in light of this 
ruling. 
Accordingly, the deposition stands in recess subject to the call of the chair. We 
will close that part of the deposition. And we will now, for the benefit of the  Select Committee, just talk about the committee's business, strategy, and what other 
items we might want to discuss. 
- Mr. Chairman, thank you. 50 
We wanted to go off the record. We want to make sure we can go off the record 
now. 
We will let the court reporter go and thank her very much for her patience today. 
So we are off the record as of now. 
[Whereupon, at 4:21 p.m., the committee was recessed, subject to the call of the 
chair.] 