From: Vince Haley <vince@vincehaley.com> on behalf of Vince Haley <vince@vincehaley.com> 
Dan Huff To: 
Sent: 05-Nov-20 11 :47:01 PM 
Subject: more notes on the state legislature strategy 
A few more notes on the state legislature strategy and the supreme imponance of having a clear message: 
1. We may quickly be in a situation where PA, GA, NV and AZ are called against us and Eiden has over 
270. 
2. We will be facing enormous pressure to concede, although we will be able to say in some cases that we 
have ongoing litigation to challenge those fmdings (potential recounts, other court actions). Absent 
immediate evidence of fraud to describe at length, our communicators on TV will be having a 
challenging time to explain what our legal strategy is. They will be speaking in the language of the 
lawyers and the court system and it will be hard for the public to follow. 
3. That's why there is a strong case to start echoing the Mark Levin argument that state legislatures will 
need need to intervene, take back their constitutional power and slate Trump electors for the electoral 
college. (WI, MI, PA, GA, NC). This is the ultimate check on suspect state election activities and vote 
counting AND an assertion by the state legislatures of their independent and substantive judgment 
about who should be our next president. 
4. I emphasize: state legislative action to corrective apparent voting fraud is only one rationale for slating 
Trump electors. We should baldly assert that there is no reason under the Constitution that Republican 
run legislatures are duty bound to deliver their citizens over to socialism , and to the unholy alliance of 
big tech, fake media, and hard left. They have the constitutional right to substitute their judgment for a 
certified majority of their constituents. 
5. With This new Comms pattern, it is no longer only defending trump assertions of voting fraud in 
various states (with various fact patterns) as a means of not conceding election, but talking about state 
legislatures in key states deciding that they are not in agreement with socialism and elections that don't 
have the confidence of the people. And they will act in the best interests of the constituents who 
elected them. And that means picking a president who is not dominated by leftists bent on destroying 
the American way of life. These state legislators can make POLITICAL ARGUMENTS , including they 
are not going to vote for a president compromised by his family's ties to Chinese money. This is 
constih1tionally legitimate grounds for reasserting the role of the state legislature. 
6. Let the media scream bloody murder. But that is the nature of our republican government when it 
comes to electing a president. State legislatures have this power. Opponents on the other side have to 
scream it's unfair to change the rules after an election under current rules. But that's precious after all 
of the left's legal maneuvers to change the rnles. 
7. Opponents of this action will also be forced to reject the electoral college and its entire design. Our 
side will be defending why the founders set it up this way. Another check and balance. And here we 
are checking Socialism Chinese control. 
8. Our talk radio allies can make this argument and pressure the grassroots to demand these steps from 
their state legislative reps. 
9. Trump can assure PA and MI guys that hen will campaign like crazy against Wolf and Whitmer in 2022 
and defend the control of their chambers. 
10. Potus provides the states air cover by prosecuting the lawsuits and aggressively pursuing fraud. 
11. Potus could even rally in those states to encourage the legislatures to act. (Would have to think about 
that one.) 
12. But as I type this out, the thing I come back to is that we call on the legislatures to act not only because 
of fraud, but for other substantive reasons to defend Republican fonn of government against big tech 
and fake media and a deep state. 
13. Dems and left's talking heads would be arguing PROCESS in reaction to this move and we would be 
killing them on substance (fracking, China, taxes etc). State legislatures don't have to offer their 
citizens up to slaughter by the Washington political class because the political establishment raised more 
money from special interests and cheated at night in the urban areas. 
14. We are then back to our high ground of defending the American Dream and a government that serves 
VMH-00003559  the people under the Constitution. 
15. Finally, I don't think we should be talking about dividing up the electoral vote in each state by popular 
vote. I think it's confusing. Under my theory, state legislators are not obliged to give their executioners 
half a piece of rope to hang them with. They say no to any rope. They give all their electors to trump. 
You'll have everyone doing fu$&@ing math with proportional votes and people won't understand. 
They will understand saying fuck you to the globalist class and redirecting all electoral votes. Our side 
will not appreciate saying only a half of fuck you to the political class. 
VMH-00003560 