1 
2 
3 
4 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE 
5 JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL, 
6 U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
7 WASHINGTON, D.C. 
8 
9 
10 
11 INTERVIEW OF: MICHAEL POMPEO 
12 
13 
14 
15 Tuesday, August 9, 2022 
Washington, D.C. 1 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 The interview in the above matter was held via Webex, commencing at 12:00 p.m. 
Present: Representatives Lofgren, Murphy, and Cheney.  1 
2 Appearances: 
3 
4 
5 For the SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE 
6 THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL: 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 STAFF ASSOCIATE 
INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT 
SENIOR INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
CHIEF INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
, SENIOR COUNSELOR TO THE VICE CHAIR 
HIEF CLERK 
17 For the COMMITTEE ON HOUSE ADMINISTRATION: 
18 
19 _, COUNSEL 
20 
21 
22 For MICHAEL POMPEO: 
23 
24 WILLIAM BURCK 
25 QUINN EMANUEL 2  1 
2 All right. Good morning. 
3 This is a transcribed interview of former Secretary of State Michael Pompeo 
4 conducted by the House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the 
5 United States Capitol pursuant to House Resolution 503. 
6 Secretary Pompeo, if you could please state your full name and spell your last 
7 name for the record. 
8 Secretary Pompeo. Yes, sir. My name is Michael Richard Pompeo. My last 
9 name is spelled P-o-m-p-e-o. 
11 I see you're represented by counsel, Mr. Burck. 
12 Bill, if you could also introduce yourself and spell your last name for the reporter. 
13 Mr. Burck. Sure. My name is William Burck, B-u-r-c-k. I'm a partner at Quinn 
14 Emanuel. And we represent Secretary Michael Pompeo. 
- Great. Thank you. 15 
16 My name is and I'm the chief investigative counsel for the select 
17 committee. Several lawyers from the committee staff are with me today, and I'll ask 
18 them to introduce themselves and spell their names as well. 
19 -why don't you start? 
20 Sure. 
21 Last name is spelled I'm the senior counsel to the 
22 vice chair. 
23 Last name I'm an 
24 investigative counsel for the select committee. 3 
25 All right. And who's a professional staff member, is  4 
1 here as well. 
2 I don't know if we have any members present. I believe Ms. Lofgren is here. Is 
3 that right? Ms. Lofgren and Mrs. Murphy, two members of our committee, are joining 
4 remotely. 
5 Correct. 
6 Great. 
7 So, Secretary Pompeo, this will be a staff-led interview. If our members who are 
8 present decide to join, they may choose to ask questions, and I will try to let you know 
9 and let Mr. Burck know if they join. 
10 There's also an official reporter who's transcribing the interview. Please wait 
11 until each of my questions is complete before you begin your response, and I will try to 
12 wait until your response is complete before asking the next question. 
13 The reporter cannot record nonverbal responses, such as shaking your head. It is 
14 important that you answer each question with an audible, verbal response. 
15 We ask that you just provide complete answers based on your best recollection. 
16 If the question isn't clear, then just ask for clarification. And if you don't know the 
17 answer, obviously, just say so. 
18 And then, although this interview is not under oath, I want to remind you --and 
19 this is not a Pompeo-specific admonition, it's something we tell everybody --that it is 
20 unlawful to deliberately provide false information to Congress. 
21 Do you have any question about that or any of the other rules or guidelines that 
22 we've just gone over? 
23 
24 Secretary Pompeo. No, sir. 
Okay. Great. And again, logistically, if you just need a break or 
25 want to discuss anything with your attorney, just let us know.  1 
2 Secretary Pompeo. Thank you. 
All right. So let's start, Secretary Pompeo. I just want to make 5 
3 clear for the record --or actually, first, Bill, do you have a few things you wanted to put on 
4 the record before I start questions? 
5 Mr. Burck. Yes, thank you. 
6 I just wanted to confirm, I think, a couple of conversations I've had with you,_ 
7 and maybe other members of the staff. 
8 As you all know, we've not been provided any documents in connection with this 
9 interview by the committee. My understanding is that we're not aware of and you're 
10 not aware of any documents in your possession that reference or were sent to --or I 
11 shouldn't say reference, but were sent to or received or sent by Secretary Pompeo, nor 
12 are we. We're not aware of any. 
13 We've not done a search for documents. We don't have ready access to State 
14 Department material. 
15 Mr. Pompeo has gotten access to his calendar by the State Department in 
16 connection with a book he's writing about his time as Secretary of State, but he has not, 
17 nor have I, searched that for anything relating to January 6th. 
18 And, again, sitting here today, Secretary Pompeo is not aware of any documents 
19 or any information that would be relevant to the inquiry that he has in his possession. 
20 So, just by necessity, he will be operating purely off of memory, and the memory 
21 is now 18-plus months old, so he's going to do his best to answer your questions. He 
22 obviously understands, he'll answer the questions honestly, but, again, there will be 
23 passage of time, as well as, again, he's purely working off of his best memories at this 
24 point. 
25 So that's really all I had to stay.  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 Okay. 
Mr. Burck. Otherwise, we're ready to go. 
All right. Appreciate that. Thanks, Mr. Burck. 
I see that the vice chair, Ms. Cheney, has now joined. 
Ms. Cheney. Good morning, Mr. Pompeo. Thanks for joining us. 
Secretary Pompeo. Yes. 
EXAMINATION 
Q So, Secretary Pompeo, I just want to make clear that you are here today 
10 voluntarily, not pursuant to a subpoena or any legal process. Is that right? 
11 
12 A 
Q Yes, sir, that's correct. 
All right. And are you familiar with the letter that was sent to your counsel 
13 just yesterday by the current White House counsel's office indicating that, given the 
14 magnitude of the issues evaluated by the select committee, that it would not be, in 
15 President Biden's view, appropriate to assert any executive privilege over your testimony 
16 as to those subjects? 
17 A I have not read the letter. My counsel briefed me on the contents and the 
18 scope of the waiver provided by the White House, by President Biden, for this interview. 
19 
20 
21 Q 
A 
Q Okay. Great. And do you have any questions or concerns about that? 
No. 
Okay. Let's talk a little bit about just your professional background. Start 
22 with what you're doing now and maybe walk us back to West Point. 
23 
24 A Oh, goodness. All right. I'll give it a throw. 
I'm now engaged in various business activities since my time leaving the 
25 administration on January 20th of 2021. Also continuing to do work on behalf of 6  7 
1 political candidates for the Republican Party. And then spending more time with my 
2 wife. That's the three ways I'm occupying myself these days. 
3 Before that, I was America's 70th Secretary of State for about a thousand days. 
4 Before that, I was the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency for approximately a year 
5 and a half. Before that, I served in Congress from the Fourth District of Kansas for just 
6 over 6 years. And before that --that would have begun, I was elected in '10, began 
7 service January 3rd, 2011. 
8 Before that, I was a business person, first running a machine shop in Wichita, 
9 Kansas, that made airplane parts, and then later a similar business that did the same kind 
10 of thing in the energy industry. 
11 Before that time, I was a lawyer practicing law at Williams & Connolly in 
12 Washington, D.C., for about 3 years. Law school predated that. 
13 Before the 3 years in law school, I served just over 5 years on Active Duty in the 
14 United States Army. And that takes me back to my college days. So I graduated from 
15 West Point in 1986. 
16 I think I got it all. I'm sure there were gaps in there for a period of time too 
17 where I was unemployed. 
18 Q No, you covered what I had on my list. Thank you. 
19 I want to take you right to January 6th --or actually just before 
20 January 6th --Secretary Pompeo, and ask you if you were aware of any advance 
21 discussion before that date about the joint session, about the President's rally at the 
22 Ellipse. 
23 Did you have any information in advance of the day that informed your 
24 expectations of what might occur? 
25 A No.  8 
1 Q Do you recall any conversations about the Ellipse rally or the event plans for 
2 it with President Trump? 
3 Mr. Burck. I'm going to just intervene there for a moment because we have a 
4 letter from President Trump's counsel asserting executive privilege over any direct 
5 conversations between Secretary Pompeo and the President. 
6 It's also broader than that. He is, through his lawyer, he's asserting executive 
7 privilege. 
8 In my judgment, the executive privilege will be respected here as to direct 
9 conversations between the President and Secretary Pompeo. 
10 But, otherwise, we take the position that the waiver by President Biden is 
11 sufficient to permit the Secretary to speak about the conversations he had with other 
12 people outside of the President directly. 
13 So your specific question was directed at conversations with President Trump, and 
14 I'm going to direct Secretary Pompeo not to answer questions about any conversations he 
15 had directly with President Trump. 
16 All right. Mr. Burck, let me just clarify. Does that, in your view, 
17 extend regardless of subject matter? I mean, I understand the executive privilege would 
18 cover --potentially cover matters involving official business, but things like campaign or 
19 other matters outside of that the committee's view would be would not be covered by 
20 any executive privilege. I just want to be sure I understand going forward where you 
21 sort of draw the privilege line. 
22 Mr. Burck. Yes. Any conversations with President Trump while he was 
23 President that would be in any way related to his official position as President we are 
24 taking the position that we're going to respect the assertion unless a court subsequently 
25 informs us that is incorrect.  9 
1 Okay. And it sounds like this question about plans for the Ellipse 
2 rally directly with President Trump, in your view, would be in that category? 
3 Mr. Burck. Yes. Although you did ask a broader question, which was did he 
4 have any conversations with anyone, and he said no. So, you know, you could probably 
5 infer from that what you like. 
7 Mr. Burck. The point is that anything specifically about the President would be 
8 off limits. 
Included within "everyone." I understand. 
Mr. Burck. Exactly. 9 
10 
11 
12 Q All right. Secretary Pompeo --and I appreciate that, Mr. Burck, your clarity 
13 on that up front --before January 6th, from any source, were you aware of the possibility 
14 of unrest or violence, either at the Capitol, the Ellipse, or anywhere else, attendant to 
15 those events? 
16 
17 A 
Q No. 
Did you have any intelligence briefings or information provided to you about 
18 those events by law enforcement? 
19 
20 A 
Q No. 
I want to ask you specifically about a meeting that occurred in the Oval 
21 Office on January 3rd, which was the Sunday before. And this is something that we have 
22 heard about from General Milley. 
23 He indicated that there was a meeting that you attended with President Trump, 
24 with General Milley, with Mark Meadows, with several others, that was about Iran. 
25 And I don't want to get into the subject matter of the meeting. But after the  1 meeting, according to General Milley, there was a brief conversation about January 6th 
2 where the President turned to Acting Secretary of Defense Chris Miller and said --asked 
3 him about preparations for January 6th. 
4 Do you remember anything at all about that conversation related to January 6th 
5 coming out of that meeting at the White House on January 3rd? 
6 A I don't. I do recall there being a meeting --I couldn't tell you if it was 
7 January 3rd or not --where we were talking about the topic that you described, about 
8 Iran. I don't recall other topics other than the topic for which I was present. 
9 Q Okay. Yeah, General Milley just indicated that the President speculated 
10 that there would be a large crowd, fifty or a hundred thousand people, and asked then 
11 Secretary Miller if he had a plan to protect his people. 
12 Do you remember hearing any such conversation? 
A 
Q I do not. 
Okay. Where were you on January 6th? 10 
13 
14 
15 Mr. Burck. Just for clarity on the record. So I will be --where I understand the 
16 answer to be that the conversation did not occur, I'm not going to instruct him not to 
17 answer any such questions, because I don't think that executive privilege would apply to a 
18 conversation that did not happen. 
19 Right. I appreciate that, Bill. That would be my expectation as 
20 well. 
21 
22 Q Sounds like, to be clear, Secretary Pompeo, you don't recall any conversation 
23 about January 6th attendant to that January 3rd meeting in the Oval Office about which 
24 General Milley has testified. Is that right? 
25 A That's correct,  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 Ellipse? Q Okay. All right. Thank you. 
Where were you on January 6th? 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A I was in Washington, D.C. I believe I spent most of the day in my office. 
I see. You did not attend the rally at which President Trump spoke on the 
I did not. 
Did you listen to the speech, watch it on TV? 
I did not. 
Okay. How did you first learn about violence or unrest at the Capitol? 
My recollection is I first learned about it sometime in the afternoon, I think 11 
11 late afternoon, when my staff asked me to leave a meeting I was in because they wanted 
12 me to come see what was going on. And I went into my office, flipped on the TV 
13 screens, and saw the violence at the Capitol. 
14 Q What do you remember, Secretary Pompeo, happening when you turned on 
15 your TV? Were people inside the Capitol already? Were they outside? I'm trying to 
16 pinpoint timing with this. 
17 A You bet. To the best of my recollection, people, I don't recall if they were 
18 inside, but the pictures were of people that were climbing the walls, climbing the 
19 front --the facade, it would be the west facade of the Capitol. That's the image that I 
20 have in my mind when I flipped it on. 
21 Q Okay. And that was the first inkling you had that there had been any unrest 
22 or violence at the Capitol? 
23 
24 A That's correct. 
Q Once you learned of it by seeing those images on TV, just sort of walk us 
25 forward about the rest of your afternoon. What did you do?  12 
1 A I don't recall. I watched it for a while. I was disturbed that there was 
2 rioting at the Capitol, a place that I had worked for 6 years. 
3 I remember thinking about the Capitol Police, all the work they had done to keep 
4 me safe, keep all my team safe for an awfully long time, wondering how the heck these 
5 folks had managed to get through that. 
6 I don't recall. I'm confident that I went on with the rest of my day. I'm sure I 
7 had things scheduled for the rest of the day, although I don't recall, other than one 
8 meeting that --I remember the meeting that I was in with a group of pastors who were in 
9 town. But I don't recall what I did after that. 
10 Q Did the events at the Capitol require you to take any official action as 
11 Secretary for your workforce or any other professional purpose? 
12 A I was very confident that the security teams for both the building at the 
13 State Department, at the HST, the security team for all of my folks would be doing the 
14 right things, that there was no action required. There were lots of things that needed to 
15 be attended to in what were the remaining 14, 15 days of our time. 
16 
17 Q I see. 
Did the violence at the Capitol affect your work at the State Department in any 
18 way that day? Did it cause you to alter your schedule or do anything different other 
19 than looking at the television for that period of time? 
20 
21 A Not to the best of my knowledge. 
Q All right. At any point during the day, Secretary Pompeo, did you talk to or 
22 attempt to talk to anyone inside the White House? 
23 A To the best of my recollection, I don't believe that I did. I have some 
24 recollection that I saw at some point on the TV or read or heard that the Vice President 
25 was inside the building.  13 
1 I had known the Vice President an awfully long time. I remember thinking about 
2 being concerned, praying for his safety. I remember at least thinking about should I try 
3 and reach out to him and call him. 
4 I cannot recall if I reached him or potentially reached his --one of his team, Marc 
5 Short, who I've known for a long time as well. I can't recall if I actually reached them, 
6 spoke with them, or if I just thought about trying to get a hold of them. I don't 
7 remember. 
8 Q Yeah. Mr. Short indicated in testimony to the committee that you did 
9 actually speak to him on the evening of or at some point on January 6th. 
10 Do you recall specifically that conversation, what you said to him or he said to 
11 you? 
12 A I don't. As you mention it, I do remember trying to reach him, and I may 
13 have gotten through to Marc. I'm confident what I would have said is, "Are you all 
14 okay? Is there anything I can do to help?" It would have been a short conversation, 
15 I'm guessing, but I don't recall the contents of it in particular. 
16 Q Okay. His recollection was very similar. He said that you had called to 
17 make sure that the Vice President was okay, was just checking in. But he indicated that 
18 you also told him that you were talking to other Cabinet Secretaries at the time, that you 
19 had been in touch with colleagues of yours on the Cabinet that night on January 6th. 
20 Does that ring a bell to you? Were you in touch with other members of the 
21 Cabinet on the night of January 6th? 
22 A The only conversation I had with any other Cabinet members on the night of 
23 January 6th that I recall was with Secretary Mnuchin. 
24 
25 Q 
A All right. Tell us about that conversation, you and Secretary Mnuchin. 
My recollection, it was relatively late in the evening. I think I was home  14 
1 already. I received a call that Secretary Mnuchin wanted to speak with me. He was 
2 traveling, I think, in the Middle East. 
3 Sometime shortly thereafter we connected. He called me. He was looking for 
4 me to give him an update, what I knew, what I'd learned, what I'd seen about that day. 
5 He had obviously seen images. If it would have been the Middle East, it would have 
6 been what he awoke to. He was clearly very upset by what he had seen. 
7 
8 And that was the scope of the conversation as best I can recall it. 
Q Did he say, Secretary Pompeo, why he called you as opposed to someone in 
9 the White House or someone who had more direct knowledge of those events? 
10 
11 A 
Q Not that I can recall. 
All right. Was there any discussion about how he or you should react to the 
12 events at the Capitol? 
13 A I don't recall specifically, but we both felt compelled to make a statement. 
14 I think subsequently we both did make statements. And if I recall the conversation 
15 correctly, our view of what we had seen was the same --that the rioting at the Capitol 
16 was terrible, it was tragic, and we were saddened by it. 
17 
18 Q 
A Yeah. And I'll get to --
But if I recall, just to finish that up, if I recall my statement that evening --or 
19 maybe it was the next morning, I can't recall --that I put out via either the State 
20 Department press team or my Twitter account was something to that same effect. 
21 Q Yeah, I'll get to that. You did put out a brief statement. 
22 But I'm wondering, was there any discussion with Secretary Mnuchin about 
23 resignations, either yours or other members of the Cabinet? 
24 
25 A 
Q Not that I recall. 
All right. How about the 25th Amendment? Any discussion with him that  15 
1 night about whether it was an issue that you should consider or think about? 
2 
3 A 
Q No. 
All right. And, again, anything more specific beyond issuing a statement 
4 that you talked about in terms of appropriate response with Secretary Mnuchin? 
5 
6 A 
Q Tim, not that I can recall. 
Okay. Let me go back, though, to why did you not call anyone inside the 
7 White House. You had a close relationship with the chief of staff and others. 
8 
9 Tell me more what informed your decision not to reach out to them. 
A As Secretary of State, I had lots of work to do. We were working on many 
10 things, including the transition. Knew there were capable people. I had no special 
11 subject matter expertise nor, for that matter, any responsibility for security at the Capitol 
12 or at the White House. There was plenty for me to attend to. 
13 Q You did decide to reach out to the Vice President. Why the Vice President 
14 instead of the President or anyone close to him in the White House? 
15 A I called the Vice President because I saw he was in a position where he might 
16 have been at risk and wanted to make sure he was okay. And he is a longtime friend in 
17 addition to the Vice President of the United States. 
18 Q How about other Members of Congress, former colleagues or contacts of 
19 yours who were, much like the Vice President, in the building that was under attack? 
20 Did you make any attempt to contact any Members of Congress on this day? 
21 A To the best of my knowledge, I did not. 
22 Q All right. Anyone else that you recall calling, Mr. Secretary, beyond the Vice 
23 President or Mr. Short? 
24 
25 A 
Q No. 
Now, over the course of the day the President issued a number of  16 
1 statements. 
2 Do you remember in real time seeing the tweets that he put forth, any statements 
3 that he made at the time that he made those statements? 
4 
5 A 
Q I don't recall. 
Do you remember seeing the President's very first tweet that afternoon was 
6 about Mike Pence not having the courage to do what should have been done to protect 
7 our country and our Constitution? Do you remember seeing or hearing about the 
8 President's critical tweet about the Vice President that afternoon? 
9 
10 A 
Q I don't recall. 
All right. He had a couple of subsequent tweets about supporting Capitol 
11 Police and law enforcement and encouraging people to stay peaceful. 
12 Do you remember knowing about them at the time or thinking whether they were 
13 sufficient or not? 
14 
15 A 
Q I don't recall. 
And then the President finally put out a video statement from the Rose 
16 Garden a little after 4 in the afternoon where he talked about the election being stolen 
17 and knowing the pain of the rioters, but telling them: You have to go home now. 
18 
19 Do you remember seeing that video statement and having any reaction to it? 
A I don't recall, although the video statement I did see some time that day. 
20 don't know if --I don't recall if I actually saw it live or if I saw pieces of it that were being 
21 rebroadcast. But I do have a recollection of seeing the President make remarks, I think it 
22 was from the Rose Garden. 
23 Q All right. And when you saw that, whenever it was, tell me what your 
24 reaction was. Did you think it was appropriate? Did you think it was the right message 
25 to send as the riot was unfolding at the Capitol?  17 
1 A You know, I was focused on a lot of things that day. The world was still 
2 moving, and we had a lot of work to do at the State Department. 
3 I don't --I didn't have an independent set of knowledge, other than what was on 
4 the TV screen, about what was taking place there. I don't recall what I was thinking 
5 when the President made those remarks. 
Even after -- 6 
7 Q 
A I'm sure I had a view, just as we racked everything, but I don't recall what my 
8 thoughts were. 
9 Q Yeah. And I guess what I'm asking, to be clear, Mr. Secretary, is not so 
10 much what was your view then --I understand it was a busy day --what your view is now 
11 upon reflection. Was that the appropriate message to send at 4:17 the afternoon as the 
12 Capitol was under attack? 
13 
14 A 
Q I don't have any --I mean, I'll leave that to others. 
Did you reach out to any counterparts in other countries that day to convey 
15 any information or reassure them as the attack on the Capitol was unfolding? 
16 
17 A 
Q I don't recall. 
Okay. Your statement, Secretary Pompeo, was issued at 6:16 p.m., and it 
18 was in the form of a tweet. It said, "The storming of the U.S. Capitol today is 
19 unacceptable. Lawlessness and rioting here or around the world is always unacceptable. 
20 I've traveled to many countries and always support the right of every human being to 
21 protest peacefully for their beliefs and their causes." 
22 You then followed it up just seconds later with, "But violence, putting at risk the 
23 safety of others, including those tasked with providing security for all of us, is intolerable, 
24 both at home and abroad. Let us swiftly bring justice to the criminals who engaged in 
25 this rioting."  18 
1 Tell us what prompted you to issue those two successive tweets at 6:16 on 
2 January 6th? 
3 A I don't recall anything specifically, if someone from my team or someplace 
4 else had helped draft that or write it so there might be a record of that. But what would 
5 have prompted it would have been what I had described to you, was the fact that I had 
6 seen them on TV, on my TV screen that day. 
7 Q Okay. Why in particular, Mr. Secretary, did you make a reference to swiftly 
8 bringing justice to the criminals who engaged in the riot? What informed adding that 
9 last line? 
10 
11 A 
Q Oh, goodness, I don't know. I stand by it. 
Yeah. This --your message was issued just 15 minutes after the President's 
12 last tweet of the day. And his last tweet was, "These are the things and events that 
13 happen when a sacred landslide election victory is so unceremoniously and viciously 
14 stripped away from great patriots who have been badly and unfairly treated for so long. 
15 Go home with love and in peace. Remember this day forever." Very different tone 
16 and message than your tweets 15 minutes later. 
17 Was your message in part meant to be a reaction to or purposely different from 
18 the President's message just 15 minutes before? 
19 
20 
21 
22 A 
Q 
A 
Q Not that I recall. 
Was it connected in any way to the President's own prior statements? 
Not that I recall. 
Do you know whether or not your message was informed by anyone at the 
23 White House? Did you run it by or get advice from anyone inside the White House 
24 before you issued your message? 
25 A I don't recall, but I don't believe so.  19 
1 Q Was it your practice to clear things with the White House before you issue 
2 public statements or not? 
3 A It depended on the topic, situation. We often did clear things, but there 
4 were other times we --I would put out statements that had not been fully cleared. 
5 Okay. All right. Let me stop there and see if Ms. Cheney or 
6 Ms. Lofgren or Mrs. Murphy, if any of you have questions about January 6th in particular. 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 Ms. Cheney. I don't have any questions, Tim. Thanks. 
Okay. Thanks, Ms. Cheney. 
.or- do you guys have anything? 
All right. Then let's keep going. 
Q Did you, Secretary Pompeo, consider resigning on or after January 6th 
13 because of those events? 
14 
15 A 
Q No. 
Did you talk to any other colleagues of yours in the Cabinet who did resign, 
16 Secretary Chao or Secretary DeVos? 
17 A I don't believe that I did. I don't recall conversations with either Secretary 
18 DeVos or Secretary Chao. The only conversation I recall about resignations was from 
19 former Chief of Staff Mulvaney, who was appointed by the President but worked for me. 
20 Q Right. Tell us about the conversation you had with Mr. Mulvaney on the 
21 night of the 6th. 
22 A I can't recall --was it the night of the 6th? You all would have the record. 
23 I don't recall the timing. I would have thought it was the next day, but I could be wrong. 
24 Q Yeah. I believe he testified it was that night, it was later the night of 
25 January 6th, after order had been restored at the Capitol.  20 
1 Regardless, what do you remember about the talk with him? 
2 A Almost nothing, other than he was distraught. He said he couldn't take it 
3 anymore, something to that effect. He just --he couldn't abide what had happened that 
4 day and he could no longer serve in the administration. That's my best recollection. 
5 
6 do? 
7 
8 Q 
A 
Q Did you try to talk him out of it or give him any advice about what he should 
Not that I recall. 
Did you have any similar concerns, Secretary Pompeo, about not being able 
9 to abide what had occurred and needing to step away? Did that cross your mind at all? 
10 A As I said before, I thought the rioting at the Capitol was terrible, it was tragic. 
11 I never contemplated resigning. 
12 Q Okay. Did you have any conversations with others who didn't resign but 
13 thought about it, other members of the Cabinet or other officials? 
14 A Not that I recall, other than a conversation that I believe was the day 
15 following, on what would have been the 7th, with Secretary Scalia. 
16 
17 Q 
A Tell us about the conversation with Secretary Scalia. 
Yeah. And, again, let me just try and make sure I'm clear on that. 
18 I don't recall for sure if Secretary Scalia told me he was thinking about resigning. 
19 So I want to make sure that the record reflects I have no recollection that he said that. 
20 But Secretary Scalia had asked to call me. That was unusual because we weren't 
21 in the same space. I was in the national security space. He wanted to talk about what 
22 happened on January 6th. 
23 And his request of me was, would I be willing to support or participate in a Cabinet 
24 meeting with the President of the United States? I told him I didn't think that that was a 
25 productive course of action.  1 
2 Q 
A 21 
Why not? Tell us more why you thought it was not productive? 
And I think I --I don't recall exactly --but I think I explained to him what my 
3 thinking --what I believed my thinking was, was that the President of the United States 
4 was unlikely to resign and so what we should focus on is making sure that we successfully 
5 delivered for America, just as we had for the first 4 years, for the final 2 weeks. That 
6 there was an awful lot of work to do, there was transition work that was not yet 
7 complete, and that should be the thing that each of us as Cabinet Secretaries should 
8 spend our time thinking about and working on. 
9 
10 Q I see. 
Secretary Scalia testified a little bit about the same conversation. He indicated 
11 that your advice to him was that a meeting, a Cabinet meeting, could backfire because it 
12 could anger the President and result in him taking some improper action, one that would 
13 not occur if we didn't go down that road. 
14 Does that sound consistent with your recollection of the conversation with 
15 Secretary Sea lia? 
16 A It doesn't sound consistent with my recollection. I remember --maybe this 
17 is a fine line --I remember thinking that it would not be productive. I don't remember 
18 thinking that I had concerns that it would spur some action that would be --I'm not sure 
19 how he characterized it. I don't recall that. 
20 Q Got it. 
21 Secretary Scalia also indicated, just as you did, Secretary Pompeo, that there was 
22 discussion about the possibility of the President resigning, to which you responded 
23 sarcastically, "Can you imagine how that conversation will go?" 
24 Essentially the President --suggesting to the President that he resign, your 
25 sarcastic response was skeptical that that would work. Again, consistent with your  1 memory of the conversation with Scalia? 
2 A Save for the descriptor, I am --my recollection is I would have said to him 
3 that I thought the likelihood of President Trump resigning was very low. 
4 Q Okay. Secretary Scalia also indicated that Secretary Azar reported that he 
5 had had a conversation with you about this same idea, the possibility of a Cabinet 
6 meeting. 
7 Do you recall talking to Secretary Azar about the Scalia idea of convening a 
8 Cabinet meeting? 
9 
10 A 
Q I do not. 
Okay. Anything else about the conversation with Scalia that you recall, 
11 whether it was the 7th or whenever it occurred? 
12 A No. The only thing is I have some recollection that I said to Secretary 
13 Scalia, "Look, if you think it's important, you should proceed. You should go see the 
14 President, just as each Cabinet member has the duty to do if we think it's important." 
15 remember some conversation along that line. 
16 Q Yeah. And do you know whether or not he followed through and actually 
17 proposed a Cabinet meeting to the President or the chief of staff? 
18 A I only know what I've read in public, that he did go see the President. 
19 don't know if that's true. 
20 Q Yeah. And I appreciate that distinction, Secretary Pompeo. What we're 
21 looking for is your firsthand knowledge of stuff, not what you've read about in the 
22 newspaper, and your care to distinguish that I appreciate. 
23 There was a man named Christopher Ford, who was an assistant secretary in the 
24 State Department, who did resign. It was actually on January the 8th, expediting his 22 
25 resignation to be effective because of --immediately because of January 6th, and he sent  1 you a letter to that effect. 
2 Do you remember any conversation with Assistant Secretary Ford about his 
3 decision to resign? 
4 
5 A 
Q 
6 resignation? I don't know that there was a conversation. I don't recall any. 
Do you remember getting a letter from him or the circumstances of his 23 
7 A My recollection is that this was brought to my attention by, I think it was my 
8 counsel, Ulrich Brechbuhl. But I remember someone on my team informing me that 
9 Assistant Secretary Ford had tendered his resignation as a result of the events of 
10 January 6th. 
11 
12 
13 Q 
A 
Q But you didn't speak to Mr. Ford yourself? 
Not that I recall. 
Okay. Did you talk to anybody else about resignation --not yours, but 
14 theirs --anyone else across the Federal Government? 
15 A Not that I recall. 
16 Q Okay. Both Acting Secretary Wolf and Secretary Azar ended up resigning 
17 before January 20th. Do you remember speaking with either of them about the 
18 circumstances of their resignation? 
19 
20 A 
Q I don't. 
Okay. All right. Let's talk now about post-January 6th conversations 
21 about the need to ensure an orderly transition. 
22 Were you involved in some discussions with anyone about the last 2 weeks, from 
23 January 6th to January 20th, taking steps to ensure that we landed the plane or that the 
24 transition went forth as appropriate? 
25 A Yes.  24 
With whom did you have discussions about that topic? 1 
2 Q 
A There would have been a number of people on my team who were working 
3 both directly and supervising the transition to Secretary Blinken's team. So there would 
4 have been many conversations substantively about how we were conducting that 
5 transition. 
6 I'm sure I would have spoken --I don't have any direct recollection --I'm sure I 
7 would have spoken with other Cabinet members as they became adjacent to national 
8 security issues connected to that. None of those really connected to January 6th. They 
9 were connected to conducting an effective transition. 
10 And I would have spoken to some of the other members of the national security 
11 team, including Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Milley, about making sure that we 
12 delivered the last couple weeks. 
13 Q Yeah. And I want to get to General Milley because he has provided a lot of 
14 information about this topic. 
15 But just generally, were there conversations you had with Milley or others that 
16 were more specific to the reaction to January 6th, the significance of January 6th, the 
17 need to do things to essentially ensure that appropriate decisions were made and a 
18 transition --peaceful transition --did occur, not the normal transition stuff, but stuff that 
19 was tied to specific concerns generated by January 6th? 
20 A No. I was confident we were --the task was the same on January 4th as it 
21 was on January 7th, January 5th, January 6th, January 7th: deliver an effective 
22 transition. 
23 Q Okay. Well, let's talk about General Milley. 
24 He indicated that on January 7th that you had one of a series of calls with him and 
25 Mark Meadows, that the three of you spoke regularly, but that on January 7th, in  25 
1 particular, either you, Secretary Pompeo, or Meadows said, "It's just us now," and that, 
2 "It's up to us" --the three of you, General Milley, Mr. Meadows, and Secretary 
3 Pompeo --"to land this thing." 
4 Do you recall discussions like that where the three of you believed you had unique 
5 responsibility to "land this thing" after January 6th? 
6 
7 
8 thing? 
9 A 
Q 
A No. 
You never used that term or talked about landing the plane, landing this 
Oh, goodness, I've probably used that phrase before. I don't recall within 
10 this situation. 
11 Q Did you feel yourself, Secretary Pompeo, some kind of obligation to stabilize 
12 decisionmaking to help ensure that nothing else like January 6th occurred after that 
13 before the transition, before the change in administration? 
14 A My recollection is that I was just focused on the work that we had. I mean, 
15 we still --there was still lots going on in the world. We did lots in the last 2 weeks, lots 
16 of things we needed to close out. 
17 No, we --look, we all know that anytime there are governments transitioning 
18 anywhere in the world that there is always risk in the gap. The closer you get to that 
19 gap, the more that risk increases. This is a matter, I think, of historical fact. 
20 And so I was deeply aware, from the day of the election through the day of 
21 January 20th, that we had to make sure and get this right. And the closer you got to 
22 that, the more the adversaries would think maybe they could do something in the waning 
23 moments of an administration. And so I was deeply focused on that the entire time. 
24 
25 Q Yeah, I appreciate that. 
Did you have any, though, special concerns about an orderly or peaceful transition  1 in the last 2 weeks because of the President's statements, the President's actions, what 
2 occurred on January 6th? 
3 
4 A 
Q No. I was always confident we were going to have an effective transition. 
All right. In that same conversation on January 7th, General Milley 
5 indicated that Mr. Meadows shared with both of you that the President was very 
6 emotional and extremely angry and in a dark place. 
7 Do you remember Mr. Meadows describing the President's mood after 
8 January 6th in those terms? 
9 
10 A 
Q No. 
Did he ever describe the President's mood in those terms --emotional, 
11 angry, in a dark place? 
12 A You know, not that I can recall in the first, but I'm sure that did reflect it. 26 
13 wanted us to have 4 more years too. I was not happy about the outcome of the election 
14 either. I wanted 4 more years to serve. 
15 So we were all dealing with that and all trying to work towards getting the right 
16 outcome so that the next administration could be successful. 
17 Q Did you have conversations with anyone, Secretary Pompeo, beyond the 
18 normal handing things off to Secretary Blinken and his team, or anyone else about steps 
19 that you needed to take to ensure an orderly transition of power in the wake of the 
20 events of January 6th? 
21 A Not that I recall. 
22 Q Did you have any discussions with anyone about President Trump's 
23 decision making, his ability to make good decisions, whether that needed to be managed 
24 or checked in any way after January 6th? 
25 A No. We were fully engaged. If I had issues that the President needed to  27 
1 address, I spoke with the President about those substantive foreign policy issues, national 
2 security issues. I would have continued to perform the mission, both the substantive 
3 mission and the transition mission, precisely the same. 
4 Q Did you have any concerns yourself, whether or not you had conversations, 
5 but any concerns yourself about the President's decision making in the last several weeks 
6 of the administration? 
7 A No. I was always confident that I would have sufficient access to the 
8 President to brief him and get the decisionmaking process right. 
9 Q All right. Let's talk specifically about any conversation you had with anyone 
10 about the possibility of the 25th Amendment. 
11 Do you remember ever talking about that subject with anyone? 
12 A I'm sure the words "25th Amendment" came up in some conversation. 
13 have no specific recollection of that. But it was never anything that I had a conversation 
14 with anyone that I can recall that was remotely serious. 
15 Q It's been reported that you asked folks within the State Department for a 
16 legal analysis regarding the process for invoking the 25th Amendment. 
17 Did you ever make that request to lawyers or others on your team about how 
18 does this work, what happens with respect to the 25th Amendment? 
19 A Not that I recall. 
20 Q All right. The way it works is that the Cabinet in a vote can actually seek to 
21 invoke it if there's concern about the stability or health of the President. 
22 Did you have any discussions about that topic with other members of the Cabinet? 
23 A No. At any --I have no recollection. Had someone raised it with me, I 
24 would have dismissed it as preposterous, just fanciful. 
25 Q Okay. Secretary Mnuchin indicated that he had at least one conversation  28 
1 with you after January 6th about the possible application of the 25th Amendment. 
2 Do you remember talking to Secretary Mnuchin about that? 
I don't. 3 
4 A 
Q Okay. General Milley similarly indicated that he recalls a conversation with 
5 you about whether or not the 25th Amendment was or was not appropriate. 
6 Do you remember any discussion with him about that? 
7 
8 A 
Q I don't. 
It sounds like, Secretary Pompeo, you never formed the view that it was 
9 appropriate; that even if it came up, you didn't think that the President needed to be 
10 replaced by the Vice President because of health, instability, anything along those lines. 
11 Is that right? 
12 A I would have viewed someone speaking about the potential of invoking the 
13 25th Amendment as just absolutely preposterous. 
14 Q Yeah. Do you remember talking to Mark Meadows about it, about the 
15 discussion, the chatter, the possibility of the 25th Amendment? 
16 A I don't. But I would have spoken with Chief of Staff Meadows with great 
17 frequency. But I don't have any --recall any conversation about the 25th Amendment 
18 with Chief of Staff Meadows. 
19 Q Okay. So, again, you're saying you talked to him frequently, don't recall 
20 whether or not the 25th Amendment was raised, but it could have been? 
21 A I don't recall. I suppose it's possible. 
22 The reason --I'm not trying to be flip there remotely. I just, had someone raised 
23 that in any serious way with me, I think I would recall it. But I don't. I don't recall it. 
24 It's possible. 
25 Q Yeah. And, again, I don't want to put words in your mouth. I just want to  29 
1 make sure I'm accurate. I appreciate that. 
2 How about foreign allies, any discussions with any of them about the 25th 
3 Amendment or the stability of President Trump or the United States Government? 
4 
5 A No. 
All right. Let me stop again and see if Ms. Cheney or Ms. Lofgren 
6 or Mrs. Murphy have any questions on the post-January 6th discussions. 
7 
8 Ms. Cheney. Thanks,_ 
I just wanted to go back for just a minute, Secretary Pompeo. Did you --do you 
9 believe that the election was stolen by fraud? 
10 Secretary Pompeo. There was litigation. The courts handled the litigation. 
11 That's the appropriate process. 
12 I didn't conduct an investigation myself on any particular set of facts or ballots in 
13 any of the particular spaces. I was doing my job as the Secretary of State the best I 
14 could for the entire time, both before and after January 6th. 
15 And I was aware that there was litigation pending, but it wasn't my space to 
16 operate in. And so I thought the courts and the certification that took place were 
17 appropriate. 
18 The courts were the right ways to resolve these issues, litigate these issues. 
19 Every American citizen has the full right to litigate any claims that they have, the courts to 
20 resolve them. And then the Vice President made the right decision on the evening of 
21 the 6th. 
22 Ms. Cheney. Thank you. 
23 Do you think that the President should have conceded after the electoral college 
24 met on December 14th? 
25 Secretary Pompeo. Oh, I'll leave that to others.  30 
1 Ms. Cheney. Well, do you believe that the President should abide by the rulings 
2 of the courts? 
3 Secretary Pompeo. Oh, yes. We should all comply with the law at all times, to 
4 the best of our ability, every one of us. 
5 Ms. Cheney. So once the courts had ruled and the electoral college had met the 
6 election was over, in your view? 
7 Secretary Pompeo. Yes. I think I've said previously that when the Vice 
8 President made the certification and the litigation was complete, it was complete. 
9 
10 Ms. Cheney. When the electoral college met on the 14th? 
Secretary Pompeo. Yes, as of December 14th. Is that right? I think that's the 
11 right date, yes. 
12 
13 Ms. Cheney. All right. Thank you. 
hanks, Ms. Cheney. I'm about to go into a little bit more about 
14 the election-specific issues. 
15 Any other questions from our members who are remote? 
16 lfnot,■or-
17 Go ahead,. 
18 Just one. 
19 I think■ asked you about whether you had any conversations with foreign allies 
20 about the 25th Amendment. Did you have any conversations with any foreign allies 
21 about January 6th in general, either on the 6th or the days after? 
22 
23 
24 Secretary Pompeo. Not that I recall. 
Q Secretary Pompeo, I just wanted to go back briefly about the conversation 
25 that you recall with Secretary Scalia, which seems to be a little bit different than how he  31 
1 recalled it. And I think you said that you viewed a potential Cabinet meeting as 
2 unproductive, is that right, or not productive? 
3 A That's correct, something --I don't know the words that I used, something 
4 like that. 
5 Q Can you just explain that a little bit more to us? Why wouldn't, in your 
6 view, why wouldn't a Cabinet meeting have been productive after January 6th? 
7 A If I recall correctly, Secretary Scalia's purpose of the meeting was to have a 
8 conversation with the President, asking him about the events of January 6th, implicitly at 
9 least, if not directly, to ask him to think about resigning. I thought the probability of that 
10 was low and that there was an awful lot of work to be done. 
11 So I just didn't think it would be a productive use of the Cabinet members' time. 
12 It was about outcomes, right, I was just thinking about what's the outcome, what are we 
13 going to deliver. 
14 And I didn't think it was a good use of Cabinet members' time on that day. You 
15 said it was the 6th. My recollection was the 7th. But as we were winding down, 
16 making this transition, I didn't think it was a good use of time. 
17 Q One of the things that Secretary Scalia shared with us is his idea part of the 
18 Cabinet meeting would also to be broadcast to the American people, that the Cabinet 
19 condemned the events of January 6th, to send a message to the American people also 
20 that the Cabinet did not feel what happened was right and be forceful in that way. 
21 Do you remember Secretary Scalia bringing up that aspect of the Cabinet meeting 
22 or whether the Cabinet should otherwise say something to the American people in 
23 condemning those events? 
24 
25 A 
Q I don't recall him saying that. 
Okay. And you say you don't recall talking to anyone else about Secretary  1 Scalia's idea to convene a Cabinet meeting sometime after January 6th? 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 A 
Q I don't. 
Okay. Thank you. 
All right. Thanks, 
All right. Secretary Pompeo, I want to go back in time a little bit now and 
7 just ask you a little bit about the election, the 2020 election. 
8 Were you involved in any way in President Trump's reelection campaign? 
9 
10 A 
Q 
11 events? 
12 A No. 
Did you have any role at all as a surrogate or participating in campaign 
No, although there were those who said that my remarks at the RNC were 
13 related to the campaign, at the convention, that I gave from Jerusalem. But I had no 
14 role, formal or informal, in the campaign proper, if that's what you're asking. 
15 Q Yeah. And I appreciate that. 32 
16 I'm just wondering whether or not you, separate from your duties as Secretary of 
17 State, did have a particular task or role within the overall campaign strategy to help the 
18 President get reelected. 
19 
20 A 
Q No, sir. 
What was your expectation going into election day? What were people 
21 telling you was likely to happen? 
22 A I don't remember. I would have likely been tracking the same polling data 
23 everybody was seeing publicly. 
24 Q All right. Did you have access to any unique data, campaign or otherwise, 
25 or were you just reading open source?  33 
I don't recall having access to any of the campaign's information. 1 
2 A 
Q All right. I want to ask you about a few specific meetings or conversations 
3 that we have heard about. 
4 The first one was on November the 9th, again with General Milley. The election 
5 was called, I believe. It was held on Tuesday the 3rd. It was called by the networks on 
6 Saturday, the 7th. So on Monday, November 9th, General Milley indicated that you 
7 called and asked to go visit him at his home. 
8 Do you recall reaching out to General Milley on that Monday and actually sitting 
9 down with him at his quarters at Fort Myer? 
10 A I don't recall, but it wouldn't have been uncommon for me to have called 
11 him or him to have called me. 
12 Q All right. Do you remember talking to General Milley soon after the 
13 election on the phone, in person, about the result and about what had occurred with 
14 respect to the election? 
15 A We would have had lots of conversations about how to make the transition 
16 work. 
17 Q General Milley indicated that you did come over and that there was 
18 discussion about the "crazies" taking over. This was the day that Secretary Esper was 
19 fired, it was that same day, Monday, November the 9th. 
20 Do you remember --well, first of all, let me just ask you, what was your reaction 
21 to the firing of Secretary Esper? 
22 A Yeah. My recollection was that there was a substantial period where there 
23 was some risk that Secretary Esper was either going to resign --this would have been 
24 after the events in the summer, if I remember correctly --or the President was going to 
25 ask him to resign or he was going to terminate him. So there had been conversations  34 
1 about that. 
2 If I recall correctly, Secretary Esper had said to me a couple times he was thinking 
3 that his effectiveness was pretty limited and he was thinking about leaving. I couldn't 
4 tell you when that time period was. It would have been sometime in the summer of 
5 2020 or the fall of 2020. 
6 So when I heard that President Trump had made the decision to fire Secretary 
7 Esper, I wasn't terribly surprised. But it also meant that there was going to be a 
8 transition at the Department of Defense at the same time we had just had an election, 
9 and as I had described before, these times are always challenging. 
10 And so one needs to make sure that the seams are filled, the gaps are covered, 
11 and that we are all doing everything we need to do to provide for America's national 
12 security during these transitional periods. 
13 Q Yeah. I understand that Secretary Esper was close to you, that you were at 
14 West Point together. 
15 Did you agree or disagree with the President's decision to fire Secretary Esper on 
16 November 9th? 
17 
18 A 
Q It's the President's call. 
Were you disappointed in the President's decision that your friend and 
19 colleague was going to not serve through the remainder of the President's term? 
20 A I always viewed these things as the President's decision. My task was to do 
21 my job. 
22 Q Well, General Milley indicated that you were concerned not just about 
23 Esper's removal but about the replacements and that you used the term the "crazies" 
24 have taken over and that you thought that the people that were coming into the Defense 
25 Department were --these are Milley's words --"whackadoodles, nuts, and dangerous."  35 
1 Do you remember expressing to General Milley concern about not only Esper's 
2 firing, but Acting Secretary Chris Miller and his chief of staff, Kash Patel, the new 
3 leadership that was coming into the Department of Defense when Secretary Esper was 
4 fired? 
5 A I do remember it, and I couldn't tell you if it was conversations then or 
6 conversations that predated that. As I've said, there was always some risk that 
7 Secretary Esper was going to be terminated or depart of his own accord. 
8 And so I do recall having conversations with Chairman of the Joints Chiefs of Staff 
9 Milley about his concerns about some of the people that had come into his orbit, had 
10 come into the Department of Defense, and he was concerned that they weren't up to the 
11 task. I remember that. 
12 So you described certain words that he says he used. Sounds like that that is 
13 consistent with some of the concerns that Chairman Milley had presented to me for an 
14 extended period of time. 
15 Q Yeah. I guess my question, Secretary Pompeo, is whether you shared those 
16 concerns. Did you have --were you worried about the people that were coming in to 
17 run the Department of Defense when Secretary Esper was removed? 
18 A There were, I think, four Secretaries of Defense. I was worried about who 
19 replaced each time. 
20 
21 Q 
A What was the specific --
1 needed a good partner at the Defense Department to deliver on behalf of 
22 the United States of America. So from the transition from Secretary Mattis to his 
23 successor, each time --I think I was Secretary of State by that time --but each time there 
24 was a transition there. I'd say the same thing for National Security Advisors. 
25 Yeah, I wanted to make sure that I had good, effective partners at the Department  36 
1 of Defense or working on national security in the White House to support the efforts for 
2 President Trump that I was trying to deliver as his most senior diplomat. That's a true 
3 statement. 
4 Q I appreciate that, Secretary Pompeo. 
5 Just to be clear, General Milley indicated that you, not just he, but you expressed 
6 concern about Acting Secretary Miller, about Kash Patel, about the whackadoodles, nuts, 
7 and dangerous people that were being installed at Defense. 
8 Is that consistent with your perspective? 
9 A I didn't know Acting Secretary Miller. I may have met him before that, but I 
10 didn't know him. I didn't know who he was. So I was very uncertain about him. He 
11 hadn't been someone who I had dealt with. 
12 I didn't --I didn't know --I didn't know Kash Patel, other than conversations that 
13 he and I had had around a particular event that I was unhappy with the way it had 
14 unfolded. 
15 And I was also concerned about a fellow named Macgregor at the Department of 
16 Defense as well. 
17 Q Yeah. Was that in itself a concern, that the new Secretary of Defense and 
18 his chief of staff were people with whom you did not have a prior relationship? Did that 
19 uncertainty cause you concern? 
20 A No. I mean --no. Just --it's uncertainty, right? There were others who 
21 came into the senior levels of the administration that I didn't know. So there was no 
22 reason that a criteria for being in one of those positions would be a previous relationship 
23 with me. 
24 Q Tell me about your concern with Colonel Macgregor. You indicated you 
25 had concern about him. What was the basis for that?  37 
1 A I just --what I knew of him suggested that he was not one for process, and I 
2 like good, clean processes. 
3 Q Did that fear actually become realized over the course of the time that 
4 Colonel Macgregor was advising the Secretary of Defense? Are you familiar with an 
5 order that he prompted that didn't go through the normal process? 
6 A I have no firsthand knowledge that it was Macgregor who did that. I am 
7 aware from General Milley of the existence of an order that was presented, if I remember 
8 right. This would all be as Milley related to me, that General Milley told me that he had 
9 received an order about Afghanistan that had not gone through the correct process. 
10 Q Tell us everything that you recall about what General Milley told you about 
11 that order. What did you learn from him? 
12 A May I talk with Bill for a second? 
13 
14 Mr. Burck. Can I just interrupt for a second? I'm sorry. 
What does this have to do with January 6th or election fraud? I mean, because, 
15 again, President Biden has a very limited waiver as to Secretary Pompeo, and you're 
16 asking about issues that I'm not understanding what the connection is to what the waiver 
17 relates to. 
18 Yeah. It's about internal White House processes and 
19 decisionmaking. January 6th is one example in a continuum of how the President 
20 received information, who advised him, steps that he took that were inconsistent with 
21 process. And that's why this is --and we've developed --Ms. Cheney, you may want to 
22 chime in here. 
23 
24 
25 Ms. Cheney. Thank you. 
This is an area that we've developed with other witnesses. 
Ms. Cheney. Yeah. Thank you.  38 
1 The issue is that the order that the President signed instructed that all troops be 
2 withdrawn by January 20th. So it goes to the expectation that the administration would 
3 end on January 20th, which is, of course, directly relevant to the President's state of mind 
4 as January 6th was unfolding, but also in the days before and the days after the election, 
5 his expectation the administration would end. 
6 So I'd be interested, Secretary Pompeo, to get additional information from you in 
7 particular about this order that all troops be withdrawn, not just from Afghanistan, but 
8 also from Somalia, from Syria, by January 20th. 
9 Mr. Burck. I would say --Chairwoman Cheney, I would say that I would allow Mr. 
10 Pompeo, just based on the letter from President Biden, to answer that question as it 
11 relates to any issue of election fraud or January 6th. 
12 But if it relates to national security issues or matters that are not related to 
13 January 6th or election fraud, per President Biden's letter, he is not at liberty to discuss 
14 those issues.  All right. Well, let ask it this way. 
4 Is it your understanding that the President wanted the withdrawal of forces 
5 before his term of office ended on January 20th? 
6 
7 Secretary Pompeo. Yes. To be clear, he campaigned on that issue. 
Well, but this is date specific. So the issue is that an order that 
8 was executed --well, there is a separate set of issues, as .as touched on, about the 
9 process that was followed, and an order that was drafted in the White House personnel 
10 office, but an order that was signed in the days following the election that instructed 
11 troops to be withdrawn by the end of the administration, which would indicate the 
12 President believed the administration was ending. Do you understand? 
13 Secretary Pompeo. I'm not sure I understand the question. 39 
14 The question is, are you familiar with the President signing an order 
15 instructing that forces be withdrawn from these countries by the end of his 
16 administration because with the expectation his administration was ending on 
17 January 20th? 
18 Secretary Pompeo. I believe I received a phone call from Chairman Milley telling 
19 him that he had received such an order. The details of which I would need to have my 
20 recollection --I can't recall what the scope of the withdrawal --I remember thinking it 
21 was about Afghanistan. 
22 Thank you very much. 
23 Yeah, thanks, Ms. Cheney. And, Mr. Burck, I guess I'm just, just to 
24 sort of close the lip on this. This bears upon the peaceful transfer of power. I mean, 
25 our inquiry is about the events at the Capitol, but more broadly, the peaceful and orderly  40 
1 transfer of power. And this order directly bears upon --as Ms. Cheney said, there's a 
2 time factor in this order and the general stability of decision making in government in the 
3 final stages of the administration. That is why it's germane to our inquiry. 
4 Mr. Burck. Yeah, no, I understand. And I think that as Chairwoman Cheney 
5 rephrased the question, I know was fine. It's just that to the extent we get into 
6 discussions about the, you know, with high-level, other government officials, including 
7 General Milley, about why people were fired or why they were left that really are not 
8 directly related to January 6th or election fraud, then I don't think that President Biden 
9 has waived executive privilege as to that. 
10 To the extent that the questions are about what did these issues create concerns 
11 for Secretary Pompeo about the ability to transition power, then I think that's a fair 
12 question. But otherwise, that's my point. 
13 
14 Q Okay. Well, to finish that then, Secretary Pompeo, did you or General 
15 Milley have concerns about the way this order came about? It seems like you heard 
16 about it only from General Milley. Did he, and upon hearing it, you, have concerns 
17 about the process? 
18 A He expressed --he asked me if I had known about it. I had not known 
19 about it. My recollection was I had not known about it prior to the conversation he had, 
20 and then we went about trying to figure out the process that had delivered that 
21 document to him. And, yes, so if it went outside of ordinary course, that would not be 
22 appropriate. 
23 Q And you associated that, I believe you said in response to one of my prior 
24 questions with Colonel McGregor, did you have any sense that he was involved in that? 
25 A I didn't. No, I specifically --I think I specifically said, if not, I misspoke.  41 
1 specifically had no knowledge when Chairman Milley called me other than his description 
2 of what he had received and his inquiry of me, what did I know? Did I know anything 
3 about how that had been developed? 
4 Q You also mentioned in response to one of my questions that you had some 
5 concern about Mr. Patel. There had been some incident with him before. Can you tell 
6 me more about what you meant about that? 
A 
Q I don't think it has anything to do with what we're talking about today. 
Had you had --7 
8 
9 Mr. Burck. Again, I think that that would be something that's not related. But I 
10 think what --and again, Secretary Pompeo can speak for himself, but I think his testimony 
11 is that he had concerns about Mr. Patel based on a prior incident. But again, that 
12 incident had nothing to do with election fraud or January 6th. So --but he did 
13 have --again, Secretary, you can answer the question yourself, but you do have concerns 
14 about him, but I don't think you can go into why. Again, I don't think it's subject of the 
15 waiver. I don't think that's within the confines of the waiver that President Biden has 
16 provided. 
17 Yeah, I guess, again to be clear, Mr. Burck, we're just interested in 
18 the President's installation of people about whom there were concerns bearing directly 
19 upon the transition and the orderly transfer. 
20 
21 Q And, Secretary Pompeo, I'm just --anything at all that you can share about 
22 what those concerns were would be helpful. 
23 A I don't have anything to add. 
24 Q All right. Do you recall anything else about the conversation with General 
25 Milley? Again, he indicated it was face-to-face at his quarters on November 9th.  42 
1 Anything at all that you remember discussing with him in the wake of Secretary Esper's 
2 firing? 
3 A No, nothing in particular. But just to refresh, I would have --General Milley 
4 and I worked very closely together. We were working to deliver good outcomes. We 
5 did, in fact, deliver good outcomes, importantly. And we would have been talking about 
6 how to make sure as people came and people went, that we were continuing to execute 
7 the mission on behalf of the President and the country. 
8 Q Yeah. I appreciate that. Let's go to the next day, November the 10th, this 
9 would be the Tuesday, a week, one week after Election Day. In a briefing on November 
10 10th you were asked if the State Department was preparing to work with the Biden 
11 transition team. You replied there will be a smooth transition to a second Trump 
12 administration. You made those comments after, as I said, many outlets had already 
13 called the election for President Biden. That was the predicate for the question of 
14 transition. You went on to say, The world is watching. We are going to count all the 
15 votes. When the process is complete, there will be electors selected. There's a 
16 process. The Constitution lays it out pretty clearly. And the world should have every 
17 confidence that the transition necessary to make sure that the State Department is 
18 functional today, successful today, and successful with the President who's in office on 
19 January 20th a minute after noon will also be successful. 
20 Tell me, if you can, explain to me what was your motivation for saying there will 
21 be a smooth transition to a second Trump administration on November the 10th? 
22 A 
23 purpose --
24 
25 Q 
A Well, you need to read the statement in its entirety to understand my 
Just tell me --
--as you just did.  43 
1 Q Yeah, I don't want to mislead in any way. You went on to talk about the 
2 process and the Constitution. I'm just trying to get a sense as to what you were 
3 intending to convey with the prospect of a second Trump administration while talking 
4 about counting all the votes and the constitutional process. 
5 A I was trying to --I was trying to communicate, as that statement made very 
6 clear, we were going to deliver. And we did. 
7 Q What was your sense then, Secretary Pompeo, about whether or not the 
8 President had lost the election on November the 10th? 
9 A I had no independent knowledge of what had taken place in the election. 
10 didn't conduct an investigation. It wasn't my role to do so. I would have known what 
11 was on TV. 
12 Q To me all the networks had called the election for President Biden. But 
13 there was litigation pending. So were you uncertain at that point as to whether or not 
14 the outcome was already settled? 
15 A No, no, I thought the litigation --I thought the litigation was appropriate to 
16 continue. I didn't know the substance of the merits of that litigation. I thought it 
17 perfectly appropriate that if there was a claim, I thought they had the right to make it, 
18 they should go make their arguments in court. The courts would sort it out. But I was 
19 confident --I was confident on November 1st, November 5th, November 10th, and 
20 January 20th we would deliver an effective transition, and we did. 
21 Q Yeah. I see. There's been some reporting just very recently that attempts 
22 to explain the entirety of your statement --and I'm just going to read. This is from the 
23 Peter Baker and Susan Glasser book that is just excerpted in The New Yorker. I believe it 
24 just came out yesterday --"Behind the scenes Pompeo accepted that the election was 
25 over and made it clear that he would not help overturn the result. Quote, 'He was  44 
1 totally against it,' a senior State Department official recalled. Pompeo cynically justified 
2 this giant contrast between what he said in public and in private as quote, 'It was 
3 important for him not to get fired at the end, two, to be there to the bitter end."' In 
4 other words, describing that you needed to stay something publicly to not get fired while 
5 privately believing that the result was final and there would be a transition to President 
6 Biden. Again, is that accurate at all? Does that explain your motivation? 
7 
8 
9 
10 A 
Q 
A 
Q I'm sorry. I don't understand the question. 
I guess I'm just trying to --
Is this is a question about what somebody wrote in The New Yorker? 
It is reporting by two journalists at The New York Times that is essentially 
11 saying you were trying not to get fired; that you issued public statements like a second 
12 Trump administration in order to ensure that you would not get fired as Secretary Esper 
13 had. 
14 A I --what I said that day was that we would have a successful transition, and 
15 that's what we did. 
16 Q Were you at all concerned, Secretary Pompeo, that you, too, could be fired 
17 or that there was a --were you concerned that you would say something that would 
18 anger the President resulting in you not being there to see the transition through? 
19 A No. I'm sorry, I want to make sure I answer your question. Your question 
20 is was I concerned that I would say something causing me to be fired. Is that right? 
21 Q At any point. Did that inform the things that you said or didn't say because 
22 of a concern that you would be fired if you displeased the President? 
23 A Only in that I was always trying to get it right for America, for 4 years. And 
24 so, that would include the things I did and the things I said, how I said them, how I spoke. 
25 I was consistently trying to deliver on behalf of the duly-elected President of the United  45 
1 States, Donald Trump, and the American people. So that would have been every day. 
2 And that did require me to retain my job. 
3 Q Understood. I want to ask you about December 1st, having dinner with 
4 Attorney General Barr. Attorney General Barr has also provided testimony to the select 
5 committee. And he talked about a dinner that he had with you that night. And that 
6 was the night that he had met with the President and had issued a public statement 
7 essentially providing his view and the Justice Department's view that there was not 
8 widespread fraud in the election. Do you recall the dinner with General Barr on the 
9 night of December 1st? 
10 A I don't recall any specifics about the date. I recall that I had dinner with 
11 Attorney General Barr. We did that from time to time. 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 it. 
17 
18 
19 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q He said it was Italian. Does that help at all? 
We went to the same place most of the times we did it. 
It is what he said. 
I couldn't think of the name of the place, but if you told me, I could confirm 
He said the same, that this was your regular spot. 
Right. 
And then that was a big day for him. That was the day that, again, he had 
20 had that interview with the AP and had had this confrontation with the President, and 
21 that you and he had a discussion about the President, about the election and the 
22 transition. Again, anything at all that you remember about that dinner with General 
23 Barr? 
24 A No, but I'm --but I did. And whether it was at that dinner or somewhere 
25 along the way --I think it was at that dinner where he said --basically what he had said in  46 
1 public that day, right? Which was that he and the Justice Department team had found 
2 no reason to believe that there was whatever language they used, widespread election 
3 fraud or --he would have said the same thing that evening. He would have confirmed 
4 what he had said publicly. 
5 Q Yeah. Did you have any reason to doubt that? Or did you credit that, that 
6 there was no widespread fraud in the election according to General Barr? 
7 A I had no independent knowledge, but no reason to doubt that he was telling 
8 me what the results of what the Justice Department had found. 
9 Q Yeah. Did that inform your perspective at all, Secretary Pompeo, about the 
10 likelihood of a transition to President Biden, or about whether there was or wasn't fraud 
11 in the election? 
12 A Only to the extent that the Federal role, right, the pieces that Attorney 
13 General Barr would have been responsible for, but not the right --most of these claims if I 
14 remember, right, read in the press were State claims. But, sure, I would have credited 
15 what Attorney General Barr said. I knew him to be capable and trustworthy. 
16 Q Yeah. Do you recall him sharing during that dinner, and this is, again, 
17 reflecting what he told the committee, that President Trump was not listening to his 
18 advice or the advice of other cabinet Secretaries, and that it was increasingly difficult to 
19 talk sense into him, to "him," being the President? Do you remember Attorney General 
20 Barr expressing that perspective that the President wasn't listening to him and that it was 
21 hard to talk sense into him? 
22 
23 A 
Q I don't. 
All right. Did you have those concerns that the President wasn't listening to 
24 General Barr or other cabinet Secretaries or others? 
25 A No, specifically related to this set of issues? No, I would have --I was --my  47 
1 focus was elsewhere. It wasn't on election stuff. 
2 Q Did you have any concerns, Secretary Pompeo, about external voices that 
3 had access to the President, lawyers or otherwise, that were continuing to put forth these 
4 theories of election fraud despite General Barr's conclusion? 
5 A I don't recall. I just don't recall. If you're asking about contemporaneous 
6 concerns, I don't recall. 
7 Q Yeah, did you worry, for example, that Mr. Giuliani or Ms. Powell or outside 
8 lawyers had a lot of access to the President and were continuing to push theories of 
9 election fraud? 
10 
11 A 
Q I don't recall. 
Attorney General Barr, in recalling that dinner with you, recalled that you are 
12 commented that you were concerned about lack of gray hair, particularly at the 
13 Department of Defense, and how our adversaries could take advantage of that. Do you 
14 recall, first, any such discussion about lack of gray hair with Attorney General Barr? 
15 
16 A 
Q I don't. 
Do you remember having that concern, that underlying concern about lack 
17 of experience, particularly, at DOD? 
18 A It would have been the same concern that I expressed to you previously in 
19 response to a question that came before. 
20 Q Okay. And General Barr said that in your conversation with him, you tied it 
21 to specifically to how adversaries could exploit that or take advantage of that. Again, if 
22 you could share with us more your perspective on how this inexperience could be 
23 exploited by our adversaries? What was your concern? 
24 A Sure. I don't know that I used the term "inexperienced" or "inexperience." 
25 I was concerned about transitions changed. Every time --my experience is when you  48 
1 come with a new role, it takes a while to get up to speed while you're making a transition. 
2 It was already a heightened of concern was something I was aware of and wanted to 
3 make sure we were doing everything we could to mitigate that risk. 
4 Q Attorney General Barr testified to us that you said in this same dinner that 
5 there was a suboptimal civilian leadership, or thinness of civilian leadership at DOD and 
6 that you were trying to stay on top of it. Do you recall discussion of suboptimal civilian 
7 leadership in your efforts to stay on top of it with General Barr? 
8 A I don't recall from that conversation, but that's consistent with how I've 
9 testified in the sense of there was this transition. Secretary Esper had departed. 
10 didn't know the incoming Acting Secretary. So I was keenly aware that our adversaries 
11 would likely not have known him either, and they would see both that transition and the 
12 transition on January 20th as things they might choose to find a window or exploit, and I 
13 wanted to make sure that that didn't happen. 
14 Q Tell me more about that last part. How were you trying to make sure that 
15 didn't happen or you personally trying to stay on top of it? 
16 A Well, I always tried, so I shouldn't say this is --in some sense it's not 
17 different. But for those moments, I traveled less. I spent more time making sure that 
18 we were fully coordinated with all of our national security partners, not just the 
19 Department of Defense, but the Treasury Department, the Justice Department, to the 
20 extent it was working on national security matters. Certainly, the White House National 
21 Security came on to make sure as we moved through these final days, pre-transition, that 
22 there wasn't a gap. 
23 Q So you said traveled less, stayed in close touch with your interagency 
24 partners to --
25 A As I say, I tried to do that all 4 years, not that I traveled less for it, I suppose.  49 
1 But, you know, I would have constant phone calls with Secretary of Defense for my entire 
2 time, both the Cl Director and the Secretary of State, outside of the formal gatherings 
3 that we had. These weren't related, right, not having nothing do with the election. 
4 This just good common sense, how one delivers good outcomes. 
5 Q Yeah. Along those lines, you told General Barr that you, General Milley, 
6 and Mark Meadows had convened daily morning calls to make sure the country was in 
7 steady hands until inauguration. You called them "the land the plane calls." Was that 
8 a step that you took regular communication with General Milley and Mark Meadows to 
9 talk with each other about making sure the country was in steady hands until 
10 inauguration? 
11 A Yes, although, I don't know that the phone calls happened each day. We 
12 tried to do it with increased frequency. 
13 
14 Q 
A Tell us why that was important, why the increased frequency? 
The same issue. Exact same answer as the previous question. We were in 
15 a transition. We were in a Presidential transition, and we had had changes in personnel 
16 at the Department of Defense. 
17 Q And why those two, Secretary Pompeo? Were those just personal 
18 professional relationships you had, or was there something about the White House Chief 
19 of Staff, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, and the Secretary of State institutionally that 
20 made the three of you the right participants in those calls? 
21 A Well, it wouldn't have been the only calls. I would have had calls with 
22 many others throughout the day as well including with Ambassador O'Brien with great 
23 frequency. So it is not --to focus just on those calls as the only tool that I was using to 
24 try and make sure that we were successful at delivering a good sound transition wouldn't 
25 capture the full scope of the work that I was engaged in and the tools that I was using to  50 
1 get there. 
2 Q Yeah. I appreciate that. It was more than just those daily or almost daily 
3 calls. But I want to focus a little bit more on those calls, the Milley and Meadows' calls. 
4 Because General Milley, in addition to General Barr, also told us a little about those. 
5 And I'm just going to read you a little bit of what he said and ask if this squares with your 
6 recollection. He said that the three of you would hop on the phone each day to 
7 compare notes about what each was hearing and collectively survey the horizon for 
8 trouble. 
9 The general theme of the call was come hell to high water there would be a 
10 peaceful transfer of power on January 20th. We've got an aircraft. Our landing gear is 
11 stuck. We've got one engine, and we're out of fuel, but we've got to land this bad boy. 
12 Is that --were you concerned that somehow these calls and your coordination was 
13 necessary because of the President, or other uncertainty of getting to land the plane on 
14 January 20th? 
15 A I was never worried about a successful transition being delivered. Did I 
16 think they were necessary? I made the calls. I took the calls. So I clearly thought 
17 they were productive, useful tools for us to make this work as we delivered on the final 
18 days of the administration. 
19 Q General Milley, again, indicated that the calls often were comparing notes 
20 about what each was hearing and surveying the horizon for trouble. 
21 
22 A 
Q Uh-huh. 
Is that accurate? You were essentially saying, Hey, I'm hearing this or this is 
23 what I'm seeing in comparing notes about trouble or potential problems? 
24 A I'm sure we were focused on the problems. I'm sure that's true. I don't 
25 have any specific recollections of the particular conversations, but I'm sure that's true.  51 
1 We would have focused on the things that we thought presented risk. 
2 Q He explained that there was a lot of effort to calm waters, to make sure that 
3 people overseas understood the normal puts and takes of democracy. This is a stable 
4 government. We're not going to do something crazy. That took a degree of effort. 
5 Again, were you concerned about the perception overseas of instability? 
6 A Any time an adversary thinks there's a transition going on, they see that 
7 there is an opportunity, perhaps to find a gap. I was absolutely, as I have said 
8 repeatedly so far today, I was absolutely concerned about that and determined to make 
9 sure that nothing went wrong in the time of the transition, the time that the United 
10 States Government is making its every 4-year transition. 
11 Q Right. Secretary Pompeo, in these calls with Mr. Meadows and General 
12 Milley, did either of them express concern about the President, about President Trump's 
13 mental health, stability, temperament, anything at all that gave you concern? 
14 
15 A 
Q I don't recall. 
At any point, did Mr. Meadows, for example, talk about the President not 
16 doing well, being in a dark place, use words like that to describe the President's state of 
17 mind? 
18 A I don't recall. But I too would have had my own judgment about the 
19 President's state of mind. I would have been speaking with him as well. 
20 Q Did you, General Milley, or Mr. Meadows, express concern about the 
21 President's mood somehow prompting action that would be unhealthy or unproductive 
22 or a problem? 
23 A I was never worried about us delivering a good outcome. I was always 
24 confident we were making good decisions. And I actually believe now 18 months on, we 
25 did.  52 
1 Q Yeah, you're answering about "we," I'm asking about "him." I understand 
2 that you collectively were there to steady the ship. I'm wondering if you had any 
3 concerns or you heard from General Milley or Meadows concerns about the President 
4 somehow doing, saying, taking some action that you would have to stop or undo or would 
5 be negatively impacting the transition? 
6 
7 A 
Q I don't understand the question. 
Did you have concerns about the President, about where he was, about 
8 what he was doing or not doing during this period of time? 
9 
10 
11 A 
Q I was always confident we would get to the right place. 
Did you have concerns, though, about getting the right place? 
A -I'm sorry. I don't know how else to answer the question. There's 
12 always give and take. He's the Commander in Chief. We work for him. So we always 
13 had --there was lots of conversations. I had conversations with him as well. I can't 
14 speak to those. But we always had lots of conversations. And I never, for a moment, 
15 had any real concern that we weren't going to deliver a good transition. 
16 Q Okay. Did you ever ask Mr. Meadows how is he doing, how is the 
17 President's mood, how is the President's state of mind these days? 
18 A I don't recall. I might have. But I would have had --but I would have had 
19 my own independent capacity to form a judgment about that as well. 
20 Q Yeah, you're anticipating my next question. In your own observation, did 
21 you have any concerns about the President's mood, state of mind, in the time with which 
22 you interacted with him the last couple of months of the administration? 
23 
24 A The conversations --
Mr. Burck. I'll let you answer that. Secretary Pompeo, I'll let you answer that to 
25 the extent that you don't describe any conversations.  53 
1 Secretary Pompeo. Yeah, if your answer was a yes-or-no question, the answer is 
2 no. 
3 
4 Q General Milley, if I understand, I think he said, we've got to stand shoulder to 
5 shoulder. We're the last of the Mahicans. Do you remember a comment like that 
6 being made on those calls with General Milley or Mark Meadows, anybody referring to 
7 the three of you as being the last of the Mahicans? 
8 A I don't recall that.  54 
1 
2 [1:25 p.m.] 
3 Q All right. Aside from calls with Milley and Meadows, did you have calls with 
4 other cabinet Secretaries or members of the administration of a similar nature? I think 
5 you said you did, that these were not --this was not the exclusive convening of 
6 conversation, but conversations with other members of the cabinet, let's say, about 
7 ensuring the peaceful transfer of power's ability? 
8 
9 A 
Q I'm sure that I did. 
All right. Do you remember anything in particular at any people in 
10 particular with whom you had these conversations? 
11 
12 
13 A 
Q 
A I don't, but I can go through the list of people it would likely have been. 
But I'm asking --
1 don't have access to my calendar. I don't have any particular conversation 
14 about any particular person I spoke to on any particular day. 
15 Q Okay. According to Barr, you indicated you were having regular calls with 
16 the CIA Director Gina Haspel, with the National Security Advisor Robert O'Brien. Were 
17 those two, for example, people with whom you had similar conversations? 
18 A I'm sure. I don't recall. I would have spoken with Director Haspel and 
19 Ambassador O'Brien for the entire time of their tours of duty. 
20 Q Yeah. Do you remember them expressing any concern about stability of 
21 government, decisionmaking in the last couple of months of the administration? 
22 
23 
24 point? 
25 A 
Q 
A No. 
Was the transition process at State delayed or impeded in any way at any 
No.  55 
1 Q All right. I think I asked you about others giving the President advice. Just 
2 again, it is reported and I think this came also from General Milley that you were 
3 confiding in him. That beginning in the fall of 2020, you were concerned about crackpot 
4 advisors President Trump was listening to. Did you ever express to General Milley or 
5 anyone the concern that the President was listening to crackpot advisors? 
6 
7 A 
Q I don't recall using that term. 
All right. There was a big meeting, and this is one where I have to ask you 
8 to separate what you've read about in the press from what you recall in your personal 
9 knowledge --
10 Secretary Pompeo. Excuse me,. Is it possible we can take a break? 
11 Absolutely. We can. Sure. How long do you need? 
12 Secretary Pompeo. I just need a couple of minutes to talk with Bill, and then we 
13 can come right back. 
14 
15 
16 
17 Okay. Let's take 5 minutes. No problem at all. 
[Recess.] 
Q Before we left off, there was one, in particular, an additional General Milley, 
18 portion of General Milley's testimony that I wanted to ask you about, and that was this 
19 December 18th meeting there's been a lot of reporting about, Sidney Powell and Michael 
20 Flynn and others were in the White House. Do you recall at the time, not what you've 
21 read, but hearing about that meeting, that December 18th meeting in the White House? 
22 A I don't recall. 
23 Q All right. General Milley indicated that when he talked with you about this 
24 meeting, you said you know the crazies have taken over. And I'm not going to ask you 
25 again about that phrase, but again, do you recall having any concerns about Michael  1 Flynn, Sidney Powell, about Patrick Byrne having access to the President? 
2 
3 A 
Q I mean, no, not --I don't recall that specifically, no. 
All right. You don't recall the meetings specifically, or those folks having 
4 access to the President being a concern? 
5 A I don't recall either. My hesitation is the President always talked a lot to 
6 people for 4 years. 
7 Q Yeah. All right. My last question before I think Alejandra has a few, 56 
8 throughout this period of time, Secretary Pompeo, the post-election period, all the way to 
9 the end, the President kept talking about election fraud, the stolen election. Did you 
10 have concerns that his repetition of that message publicly made the transition more 
11 difficult or caused problems for you, either here or around the world? Did that cause 
12 you any concern, his repetition of those allegations even after Barr or others had found 
13 them not credible? 
14 A No, I was always --1 was always convinced we were going to both deliver it 
15 from a national security perspective, broadly, and the transition in particular. 
16 
17 Q All right. 
Let me turn it over to■. First of all,■, do you have anything in particular you 
18 wanted to ask? 
19 
20 
21 All right. a few more? 
BY 
Q Okay. Great. Thanks, Secretary Pompeo. I just have a few more 
22 questions. It sounds based on your earlier testimony --and correct me if I'm 
23 wrong --that you came to believe that the election was over or it was time to move on 
24 around the meeting of the electoral college, which was December 14th, 2020. Am I 
25 accurately characterizing your testimony?  1 
2 A 
Q Yes, that's a good summary, yes. 
Okay. Did that event lead you to take any additional steps toward the 
3 transition to the Biden administration or planning your life after the administration, or 
4 had that started before that point? 
5 A I don't recall there being a big discontinuity around that time. We 
6 were --we were, and when you talk about transition, it is a beast. The State 
7 Department transition team is big old machine. That machine was directed by me, 
8 guided by me from the Election Day onward to prepare for a transition. And I don't 
9 recall there being some moment on December 14th where I said, Go faster or do 
10 something that's fundamentally different. 
11 Q Great. So it is fair to say you kept moving forward with what you had 
12 already been doing at the State Department? 
13 
14 A 
Q Yes, ma'am. That's correct. 
Did you share, you know, the steps that you were taking at the State 
15 Department with anyone at the White House or keep them updated on the transition 
16 process that was occurring? 57 
17 A Well, I don't recall. But having said that, I am --I'm very confident that my 
18 team would have been in communication with the White House. That is at levels --at 
19 multiple levels all throughout the State Department, they would have been working both 
20 with the Biden transition team and our White House to make sure that we were all 
21 coordinated. 
22 Q Did you ever perceive or hear about any push back or concern that you were 
23 moving forward towards Biden administration in the State Department? 
24 
25 A 
Q I don't re --I don't recall any. 
And I'm going to ask the question, I understand your counsel might instruct  58 
1 you not to answer, but did you ever hear President Trump acknowledge either implicitly 
2 or explicitly that he had lost the 2020 election? 
3 Mr. Burck. I'm going to instruct the witness to not answer that question if there 
4 is a substantive answer. If there is no answer, then you can answer the question. 
5 Secretary Pompeo. I --repeat the question, please. 
6 
7 Q BY 
Sure. Did you ever hear President Trump acknowledge, you know, either 
8 explicitly or implicitly that he had lost the 2020 election? 
9 
10 A 
Q No. 
Okay. General Milley testified to the committee that during a meeting 
11 towards the end of November or early December of 2020, President Trump said to either 
12 Mr. Meadows or to you, something to the effect of, Yeah, we lost, we need to let that 
13 issue go to the next guy. Do you recall a comment like that by President Trump? 
14 
15 
16 A 
Q No. 
Okay. 
Mr. Burck. Again, you can only --if the answer is you don't recall, you can say 
17 that. If the answer is you do recall, then you can't answer the question. 
18 
19 
20 Secretary Pompeo. I don't recall. I recall no such statement. 
BY 
Q Did anyone ever share with you that President Trump had acknowledged, in 
21 private, that he had lost the election? 
22 
23 A 
Q No. 
Did you ever have any discussions with anyone in the White House 
24 post-Election Day about how President Trump, or that President Trump should concede 
25 or focus on his legacy, the accomplishments of the Trump administration rather than the  1 election? 
2 
3 A 
Q 
4 January 6th? 
5 
6 A 
Q I don't recall. 
Okay. Had you ever talked to Mr. Meadows about the events of 
I'm sure --I --tell me what --can you be a little more specific, please? 
Absolutely. Yeah, so had you ever talked to Mr. Meadows what he was 
7 going that day on January 6th? 
8 
9 A 
Q No. 
So I'm going to take you back a bit to January 5th, 2021. President Trump 
10 issued a Presidential memorandum that directed you as Secretary of State, in 59 
11 consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security, to assess 
12 whether antifa should be designated a terrorist organization under Section 1182 of Title 
13 
14 VIII of the U.S. Code. 
Mr. Burck. 
15 or --
16 BY Do you remember that Presidential memorandum? 
I'm sorry, can you explain what the relevance of that is to January 6th 
17 Q Yeah, that would be my next question. So the memo was on January 5th. 
18 The day before January 6th. On the 5th, President Trump was tweeting about antifa and 
19 how it needed to stay away from Washington, D.C. on January 6th on the day of his rally. 
20 So I was wanting --my question was going to be if you recalled the memo, if there was 
21 any connection to the timing of this memo and the January 6th rally, you know, did you 
22 have concerns that antifa was going to be there? 
23 Mr. Burck. You can answer that, Secretary Pompeo. 
24 
25 Secretary Pompeo. I don't recall the memo. 
BY  60 
1 Q And, I guess, separately, did you have any concerns about antifa being in 
2 Washington, D.C., specifically, on January 6th for either the President's rally or at the 
3 Capitol for the certification? 
4 A The question assumes that I was aware that they were there, right? The 
5 answer is no, I didn't have any particular concerns about, what did you say, antifa being 
6 present? Could you ask the question one more time? 
7 Q Yeah, absolutely. 
Mr. Burck. I think you have answered that, Secretary Pompeo. 
Ms. - Yeah, it sounds like you didn't have any concerns. 
Mr. Burck. You have no knowledge and you have no concern, therefore --
BY 8 
9 
10 
11 
12 Q And, again, it was tied to President Trump's tweets on January 5th. So The 
13 Washington Post has reported that on January 6th, someone named Matthew DePerno 
14 was at the State Department briefing an Assistant Secretary named Robert Destro about 
15 quote, "How the election was stolen," along with a podcast host named Joe Oltmann. 
16 And Mr. Oltmann had separately said he was meeting with officials at the State 
17 Department, who are sympathetic to claims that a coup was underway to steal the 
18 Presidency from Trump. 
19 My question is, are you aware of any meetings --or are you aware of who Mr. 
20 DePerno or Mr. Oltmann are? 
21 
22 
23 
24 A 
Q 
A 
Q I've read those reports. 
Okay. 
Therefore I would not have known who they were, but for that reporting. 
Okay. So you're not aware of any meetings that they may have had at the 
25 State Department around January 6th?  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 A 
Q 
A I have read the reporting. 
Okay. Separately from the reporting? 
I mean --
Mr. Burck. I think he has answered that no. 
Secretary Pompeo. I'm not sure I understand the question. B-
Q Sir, I just want you to --
Mr. Burck. Did you have any independent information about this meeting, or 
9 whether or not it ever happened? 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 Secretary Pompeo. You mean contemporaneously while I was sitting in office? 
Mr. Burck. Yes. 
Q 
A 
Q BY 
Right. 
None. 
Okay. Thank you. Well, did you take any meetings or have any 
16 conversations with anyone post-Election Day about the Trump campaign strategy in the 
17 election, whether it be relating to litigation or the State legislatures, or Congress? 
A 
Q 
A Not that I recall. 
id you have anything else? 
Did Mr. Meadows call you on January 6th at all? 
I don't believe so. I don't recall a conversation with him on the 6th. 
BY 61 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 Q All right. Just a last couple of things, Secretary Pompeo. I understand that 
25 you were drawing a line of executive privilege about conversations with President Trump  1 while in office. Have you had any conversations with him since both of you have left 
2 office about January 6th? 
3 
4 
5 
6 A 
Q 
A 
Q Yes. 
Okay. Can you tell us about those conversations? 
Yes, he believes the elections were stolen. 
He continues to believe the election was stolen? The last of your 
7 conversation. 
8 A The last time we had a conversation which covered that topic, he believed 
9 that the elections were stolen. 
10 Q Okay. How about specifically about the events of January 6th, did he say 
11 anything to you about his view of those, what happened at the Capitol? 
12 
13 A 
Q No, no. 
What else do you recall him saying, other than his belief that the election 
14 was stolen, which I appreciate? 62 
15 A That, we talked about --we talked about events of the world, what I was up 
16 to. And the only thing that related to the topics we discussed today were his continued 
17 belief that the election was stolen. He basically said the same thing to me in private that 
18 I've heard him say many times in public. 
19 Q When he said that to you, did you push back, did you disagree, did you 
20 express your view on the election and whether it was stolen? 
21 A I don't recall. I don't remember what I said in response to him. If I would 
22 have said anything, I would have said what I've said when I've been asked about it 
23 otherwise, which is, we need to look forward. 
24 Q Understood. Is there anything else, Secretary Pompeo, that we have not 
25 asked you today that you think is relevant that you want to ensure that the committee  1 knows about these topics, about the election, about the January 6th attack on the 
2 Capitol? 
3 
4 A 
Q No. 
I'll give you last word. Anything else that you want to share with us that 
5 you make sure we are aware of? 
6 A No, you just did give me the last word. All set. 
7 Okay. All right. Then, I don't think any of our members are on. 
8 And I don't think-or -have anything. So I'll just say thanks again. 
9 appreciate your willingness to do this voluntarily and the information that you have 
10 provided. Thank you. 
11 
12 
13 
14 Thank yo Thank you, all. 
All right. Thank you. 
Bill, thank you as well. Have a good rest of your day. 
[Whereupon, at 1:47 p.m., the interview was concluded.] 63  1 
2 
3 Certificate of Deponent/Interviewee 
4 I have read the foregoing __ pages, which contain the correct transcript of the 
5 answers made by me to the questions therein recorded. 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 Witness Name 
Date 64 