Friday, June 10, 2022 at 12:49:00 Eastern Daylight Time 
Subject: Fwd: [EXTERNAL]No tes from call 
Date: Saturday, December 12, 2020 at 10:04:38 PM Eastern Standard Time 
From: Peter McGinnis 
To: James Fitzpatrick, Jesse Law, Valerie Phillips Mcconahay, Ryan Terrill, Shawn Flynn, Robert Sinners, 
Thomas Lane, G. Michael Brown 
CC: Christina Bobb 
Get Outlook for iOS 
From: Mike Roman <mroman@d onaldtrump.com > 
Sent: Saturday, December 12, 2020 10:01 PM 
To: Christina Bobb; Peter McGinnis 
Subject: Re: [EXTERNAL]Notes from call 
Thank you!! 
Pete: 
Forward to the team and Copy Christina 
MR 
From: Christina Bobb 
Sent: Saturday, Decem 
To: Mike Roman 
Subject: [EXTERNAL]No tes from call 
Hi Mike, 
Here are my notes from the call. I'm not sure who else was on the call, so please either forward it to them, or 
send me their contact info and I will make sure they get it. Thank you!! 
Nevada -Electors are all up to speed. All six electors are on board. 2 back ups in alternates in case they need 
additional, but they do not think they will need them. Noon on Monday. They have a friendly legislator who 
can get them in. They are prepared to do it on the steps if needed. Worst case scenario, they can use the 
GOP office. Two electors from the south who have committed to driving to the north and the other electors 
are within 15 minutes of the capitol and committed to being there at noon. Trying to get inside the building. 
Working to get a ceremonial photo. May have to do the paperwork somewhere else. **Democ rats are 
voting by Zoom. It's in the statute that they have to be in person. 
Georgia -16 electors 10 confirmed , 2 alternates, 4 unsure of status. Room reserved at legislature. Alternates 
can be accepted as electors by vote of the electors. One elector wife died yesterday, the other is hostile to 
the idea. He will have the forms this evening. Conern is access to building. Not working with a legislature 
who can help get access. Will need a back door option. Everyone will meet outside and go in together. 
Ken Cheesburough has documents . 
Michigan -Problems getting into the capitol. Michigan is closed via covid guidance. Vote is supposed to 
happen in senate chamber. It's in control of democrats (popular vote). There have been death threats. 200 
Ml state police. Dems getting a police escort to cast ballots. Working to get Ml senators and Ml 
representatives, a committee, to let us meet in the committee room. 16 legislators substituted as electors. 
Page 1 of 2  We only need one real elector to show up, and the others can be replaced. Will do paperwork at Ml GOP 
headquarters . Depends on police. Contingency is on the capitol steps. Will walk from GOP headquarters and 
vote on the steps. 
Wisconsin -10 electors contacted 9 out of 10 are confirmed. There will be one replacement. WI state law 
requires it be at the capitol, they are waiting for confirmation to be allowed inside. This will likely get done, 
but it's not finalized yet. Sherpa is Andrew Iverson. Staged a block away at party office. 
Pennsylvania -4 definite yeses out of 20. 7 back ups. Need to get in touch with more people who can be 
alternates . Not sure the updated language will be acceptable. It seems fine, but there are concerns . Waiting 
to hear from Mastriano's office about getting a room. Mayor may need to make a call. Still replacing 
electorates . 
Arizona -All 11 electors are prepared to meet for Monday. Kelli Ward will be there. Access shouldn't be a 
problem. AZ law does not demand a specific location, so they can change location if building is closed. 
New Mexico -They are reaching out to them to ask if they can throw this together by Monday. 
Christina Bobb 
One America News 
Twitter: @christina_bobb 
Page 2 of 2 