079P-R0000785_0001 
(2021-079) 
OFFICE OF THE VICE PRESIDENT 
Information Memorandum 
TO: 
FROM: VICE PRESIDENT PENCE 
GREGORY JACOB, COUNSEL TO THE VICE PRESIDENT 
Gregory.F.Jacob@ovp.eop.gov 
202-881-9069 
SUBJECT: JANUARY 6 PROCESS FOR ELECTORAL VOTE COUNT 
DATE: DECEMBER 8, 2020 
The counting of the votes of the Electoral College will occur on January 6, 2021, in a 
Joint Session of Congress that will be held in the House chamber. The process for 
counting electoral votes is prescribed by the Twelfth Amendment to the United States 
Constitution and-to the extent that it is constitutional-by the Electoral Count Act of 
1887. 
As President of the Senate, it is clear that the sitting Vice President plays a prominent 
role in the counting of electoral votes, including resolving objections to those votes. 
There is disagreement, however, whether the text of the Twelfth Amendment privileges 
the Vice President to play a decisive role in resolving objections to electoral votes on 
their merits, or whether (pursuant to the Electoral Count Act) the role of the Vice 
President in resolving dispute is largely ministerial. Absent an assertion of constitutional 
privilege by the Vice President, the parliamentarian will follow the process that is 
prescribed by the Electoral Count Act, which is described in the second section below. 
The Twelfth Amendment 
The Twelfth Amendment provides: "The President of the Senate shall, in the presence 
of the Senate and House of Representatives, open all the certificates and the votes 
shall then be counted." U.S. CONST. Amend. XII. Identical text appeared in the 
original Constitution, and was carried forward into the Twelfth Amendment when the 
Jeffersonians amended the Electoral College process in 1803-04 in response to Aaron 
Burr's contest to the results of the election of 1800. The constitutional text that governs 
the counting of electoral votes has thus remained the same since the Founding. 
When the Electoral College votes, each State's electors "seal up" the certificates 
containing their votes in envelopes, and send them by registered mail to the President 
of the Senate and to specified additional individuals. 3 U.S.C. §§ 9-11. It is undisputed 
that the Constitution mandates that on January 6, it is the job of the Vice President to 
"open all the certificates." Scholars disagree, however, whether the text of the 
Constitution also dictates that it is the job of the Vice President to count the electoral 
votes, as the Twelfth Amendment switches to the passive voice, and further fails to 
clearly identify a specified actor, when stating that "the votes shall then be counted." 
Page 1 of 4  079P-R0000785_0002 
(2021-079) 
Prior to 1887, there was no statute that purported to govern the counting of electoral 
votes, and the Vice President and Congress had only the text of the Constitution to rely 
on. A letter that was appended to the Constitution by the Framers when it was sent to 
the States for ratification makes it clear that they envisioned the President of the Senate 
would both open the electoral vote certificates and personally count the votes. The very 
first Senate accordingly elected a temporary President of the Senate (there being no 
sitting Vice President at that time) who filled the role of the Vice President in both 
opening and counting the electoral votes in the presence of the Senate and the House. 
Thereafter, a practice developed that is followed to this day whereby the House and the 
Senate each appoint two "tellers" who sit at the clerk's desk in the House chamber and 
who assist the Vice President with verifying and counting the electoral votes. 
The text of the Constitution is silent as to any process for raising and resolving 
objections to electoral votes, and until the passage of the Electoral Count Act of 1887, 
no firm protocol was established for resolving disputes over the validity of electoral 
votes. Some scholars argue that under the text of the Twelfth Amendment, it is the sole 
responsibility of the Vice President to count electoral votes, and that it is accordingly 
also the Vice President's sole responsibility to determine whether or not disputed 
electoral votes should be counted. There is some historical evidence that Adams and 
Jefferson both resolved issues over the validity of electoral votes in their own favor, and 
in 1857 the President of the Senate (a roll filled by Senator John Crittenden, as the Vice 
Presidency was then vacant) personally overruled an objection to the counting of 
Wisconsin's electoral votes, and asserted that it was his responsibility to make the 
validity determination in the first instance, while suggesting that the House and Senate 
might thereafter jointly overrule him. In a handful of other instances, on the other hand, 
the House and the Senate played a more active role in resolving objections to electoral 
votes, and the overall record of historical practice on the point is accordingly muddy. 
Following the hotly disputed election of 1876, in which the validity of several States' 
electoral votes was strongly contested, thus provoking a significant constitutional crisis, 
Congress passed the Electoral Count Act of 1887 to govern the future counting of 
electoral votes and the resolution of electoral vote disputes. A number of scholars have 
argued that the Electoral Count Act's dispute resolution mechanism is unconstitutional 
because it relegates the Vice President, as President of the Senate, to a purely 
ministerial role in resolving such disputes. Each of the last three times that a 
Republican President was elected, however-in 2000, 2004, and 2016-Democrats 
have raised objections to the counting of electoral votes, and in each instance the 
process that the Electoral Count Act prescribes for resolving electoral vote disputes was 
followed. Indeed, it appears that the only time the Electoral Count Act's prescribed 
process for resolving disputes was not been followed since its enactment was in 1961, 
when Vice President Nixon magnanimously resolved against himself a dispute over 
three competing slates of electors that had been submitted by the State of Hawaii. 
Because there are only a few instances of historical practice under the Electoral Count 
Act, however, the question of its constitutionality remains muddy, and scholars continue 
to this day to debate the constitutionally appropriate role of the Vice President in 
resolving objections to electoral votes. 
Page 2 of 4  079P-R0000785_0003 
(2021-079) 
Modern Practice and the Electoral Count Act 
Although the Constitution states that the President of the Senate shall open the 
envelopes containing the electoral vote certificates in the presence of the Senate and 
the House, in practice on January 6 the already-opened certificates will be brought into 
the House chamber in boxes and laid upon the clerk's desk. The Vice President will 
then enter the chamber and proceed to the dais, where the Speaker of the House will 
be seated. The tellers that have been appointed by the House and the Senate will take 
their seats immediately below the Vice President and the Speaker, and the Vice 
President will preside, standing, over the counting of the votes. 
In alphabetical order, each State's electoral vote certificate will be handed to the Vice 
President, who will verify the certificate's regularity and then hand it to one of the tellers. 
The teller will also verify the certificate's regularity, and then announce that state's 
electoral votes. At that point, members of the House or Senate may rise to State any 
objections to the counting of that State's electoral votes. As of the date of this 
memorandum, it does not appear that any State will have submitted a competing slate 
of electors (this could occur for example, if one slate of electors was submitted by a 
State's Secretary of State, and another slate was submitted by the State's legislature). 
This memorandum accordingly describes the process that is prescribed for resolving 
objections to counting a State's votes, rather than the process for choosing between 
competing slates of electors. 
The Electoral Count Act states that objections cannot be considered unless they are in 
writing, and are signed by both a member of the House and a Senator. 3 U.S.C. § 15. 
In both 2000 and 2016, Vice Presidents Gore and Biden applied the Electoral Count Act 
to overrule all of the objections that were raised to counting the electoral votes, because 
no Senator had signed the objections. The process was as follows. First, a member of 
the House would rise and state an objection to counting a State's votes. Second, the 
Vice President would inquire whether the objection was in writing and was signed by a 
Senator. Upon confirmation by the House member that no Senator had signed the 
objection, the Vice President would overrule it. The Electoral Count Act prohibits any 
debate during the Joint Session, so the Vice President would also overrule any attempt 
to debate an invalid objection. 3 U .S.C. § 18. 
In 2004, on the other hand, Senator Barbara Boxer signed the written objection of a 
House member, thus satisfying the requirements for a valid objection established by the 
Electoral Count Act. At that point, the Electoral Count Act dictates that the House and 
Senate must separate into their respective chambers to debate the objection, with 
speeches limited to five minutes, and total debate on the objection limited to two hours. 
Id.§ 17. 
The Electoral Count Act prescribes the standard that the House and Senate are supposed 
to apply in resolving a dispute after they divide, as well as the effect of their 
determinations. The Act states that so long as a State's disputed electoral votes "have 
been regularly given by electors whose appointment" was lawfully certified by the State's 
Executive, the electoral votes shall not be rejected. Id.§ 15. For this reason, challenges 
to electoral votes typically allege that the disputed votes were not "regularly given," a 
phrase laden with ambiguity. Following up to two hours of debate, the House and the 
Page 3 of 4  079P-R0000785_0004 
(2021-079) 
Senate may "concurrently ... reject the vote or votes when they agree that such vote or 
votes have not been so regularly given by electors whose appointment has been so 
certified." Id. § 15. Thus-presuming that the dispute resolution process prescribed by 
the Electoral Count Act is constitutional-the House and the Senate must both agree to 
sustain an objection for a State's electoral votes not to be counted.1 
"When the two Houses have voted, they shall immediately again meet, and the 
presiding officer shall then announce the decision of the questions submitted." Id. § 15. 
This process will be repeated separately for each State to which any objections are 
validly raised, until the counting of the electoral votes of all 50 States and the District of 
Columbia has been completed.2 
1 If an objection is sustained by the House and the Senate, and a State's electoral votes 
are thus disqualified, the whole number of electors that is required to attain the 
Presidency (270) typically is not recalculated, although there is some mixed historical 
practice on this question. 
2 If no candidate has obtained 270 electoral votes at the conclusion of the counting 
process, then it falls to the House of Representatives to select the President, with each 
State delegation having one vote, and an absolute majority of 26 votes being required to 
attain the Presidency. The Vice President would be selected by the Senate. 
Page 4 of 4 