Stop the Steal Rally 
Good morning! Let me begin by thanking the tens of thousands of devoted patriots 
who have come out today to stand up for truth, justice, and government OF the 
people, BY the people, and FOR the people! 
Many of you have travelled from across the country to be here. I want each and 
every one of you to know that I am profoundly grateful for your support and your 
commitment to our great country. [OTHER RECOGNITIONS] 
We are gathered today for a simple reason: we won this election, and we won it by 
a landslide. 
Almost 75 million people voted for our campaign, the most of any incumbent 
president in history. We won approximately 12 million more votes than in 2016, a 
record-breaking increase for any president from the first election to the second. 
We made historic gains among African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Asian 
Americans. Democrats were projected to GAIN 15 House seats--instead, with my 
coattails, Republicans won 25 out of 26 tossup House races, and Democrats LOST 
14 seats. In the entire country, there are 19 counties that have correctly predicted 
the results of every presidential election in the modern era. Winning even a few of 
these counties would be a powerful indicator of having won the election--but we 
didn't just win a few, we won 18 out of 19. We also won Ohio, Florida, and Iowa by 
massive and historic margins--Joe Biden would be only the second candidate in 
American History to capture the White House while losing all three. It didn't 
happen. 
There is virtually no one who believes that JOE BIDEN, who barely even left his 
basement to campaign, somehow got 12 million more votes than Barack Obama. 
Every fact points to a clear, definitive, and resounding Trump victory. 
What we have witnessed over the past several months is the most brazen and 
egregious fraud in the history of our country. 
Your sacred right to vote is the very foundation of our Democracy. Under our 
system of government, the Constitution provides Congress with the responsibility 
to determine whether this election was carried out in a fair, honest, and 
accountable manner. Later today, Congress will begin considering whether to 
certify the Electoral College vote. I know that everyone here will soon be marching 
1 
VMH-00002701  up to the Capitol to peacefully and patriotically make your voices heard. We will 
not remain silent while the Democrats and the media try to steal this election! 
I want to thank the more than 140 members of the House of Representatives who 
have announced that they will object to the certification of the election results. I 
also want to thank our [14] most courageous members of the U.S. Senate: Senators 
Ted Cruz, Ron Johnson, Josh Hawley, [[David Perdue,]] [[Kelly Loeffler,]] Marsha 
Blackburn, Mike Braun, Steve Daines, Bill Hagerty, John Kennedy, James Lankford, 
Cynthia Lummis, Tommy Tuberville, and Roger Marshall. History will record that 
these [14] Senators bravely stood up to Stop the Steal. 
Today, we hope that majorities in both Houses of Congress will join these Senators 
in showing courage, wisdom, and strength. 
The media has constantly asserted that there is no evidence of widespread fraud-­
but that is just one more big media lie. As everyone here understands, the evidence 
of rigging and theft is clear, convincing, and undeniable. 
Today, for the sake of our democracy, for the sake of our Constitution, and for the 
sake of history, we will lay out the facts for the entire world to hear. 
In every swing state, state and local officials--almost all Democrats--made illegal 
and unconstitutional changes to election procedures without the mandated 
approvals by the state legislatures--and these changes paved the way for fraud on a 
scale never seen before. For example: 
• In Pennsylvania, the Democrat Secretary of State and the Democrat state 
Supreme Court Justices illegally abolished the signature verification 
requirements 11 days prior to the election. 
• In Wisconsin, corrupt Democrat-run cities deployed more than 500 illegal 
unmanned, unsecured ballot drop boxes which collected a minimum of 
91,000 unlawful votes. In addition, over 170,000 absentee votes were 
counted in Wisconsin without a valid absentee ballot application, meaning 
those votes were blatantly illegal under state law--and they came 100 
percent from Democrat areas such as Milwaukee and Madison. In Madison, 
17,000 votes were deposited in so-called "human drop boxes," where 
operatives stuffed thousands of unsecured ballots into duffle bags on park 
2 
VMH-00002702  benches across the city, in complete defiance of a cease-and-desist letter 
from the state legislature. 
• According to eyewitness testimony, postal Service workers in Wisconsin were 
also instructed to illegally backdate approximately 100,000 ballots. 
• The margin of difference in Wisconsin is only 20,000 votes--yet the media 
says there is no evidence of widespread fraud. 
• In Georgia, the Secretary of State and Democrat party operatives entered 
into an illegal settlement agreement that drastically weakened signature 
verification and other election security procedures statewide. As a result, 
Georgia's absentee ballot rejection rate went from an average of 3 percent in 
elections, down to just 0.3 percent in 2020. This alone means that tens of 
thousands of illegitimate votes were counted in Georgia. 
• In 48 out of 159 counties in Georgia, ZERO ballots were rejected--proving that 
these mostly Democrat areas made no effort at all to determine the 
legitimacy of the votes--in fact, this is because they were committing rampant 
fraud. 
• For example, in Fulton County, Republican poll watchers were ejected from 
the room under the false pretense of a burst pipe--then, election officials 
pulled boxes and suitcases of ballots out from under the tables and illegally 
scanned them for nearly 2 hours unsupervised. This act coincided with an 
extremely suspicious vote dump of up to 100,000 votes for Joe Biden at 
1:34AM in Georgia. 
• The Georgia Secretary of State has rejected 5 separate appeals for an 
independent and comprehensive audit of signatures. Instead, they have done 
only one totally inadequate audit in a single county-refusing to check 
signatures in the other 158 counties across Georgia. 
• Over 10,300 ballots in Georgia were cast by individuals whose name and date 
of birth matches a Georgia resident who died in 2020 prior to the election. 
• More than 2,500 ballots were cast by individuals whose name and date of 
birth matches an incarcerated felon in a Georgia prison- people are not 
allowed to vote. 
• More than 4,500 illegal ballots were cast by individuals who do not appear on 
the state's voter rolls. 
• Over 18,000 illegal ballots were cast by individuals who registered to vote 
using an address listed as "vacant," according to the postal service. 
3 
VMH-00002703  • At least 86,000 ballots in Georgia were cast by people whose registrations 
were illegally backdated. 
• 66,000 votes in Georgia were cast by individuals under the legal voting age. 
• At least 15,000 ballots were cast by individuals who moved out of the state 
prior to the November 3rd election. 
• Despite all of this, the margin in Georgia is only 11,000 votes--and yet the 
media says there is no evidence of widespread fraud. 
• In Pennsylvania, there were over 200,000 more ballots counted than there 
were actual voters in the election. This mathematical impossibility remains 
completely unexplained. 
• Over 8,000 ballots in Pennsylvania were cast by people whose name and date 
of birth matches an individual who died in 2020 prior to the election. 
• Over 14,000 ballots were cast by out of state voters. More than 10,000 votes 
were illegally counted even though they were received AFTER election day. 
And more than 60,000 ballots in Pennsylvania were reported received back 
BEFORE they were ever supposedly mailed out-which is also logically 
impossible. 
• 25,000 ballots in Pennsylvania were requested by nursing home residents all 
in a single giant batch--indicating an enormous illegal ballot harvesting 
operation. 
• The day BEFORE the election, the state of Pennsylvania reported the number 
of absentee ballots that had been sent out. Yet this number was suddenly 
and drastically increased by 400,000 ballots one day AFTER the election--it 
remains completely unexplained how an additional 400,000 ballots appeared 
from nowhere after Election Day. 
• The margin in Pennsylvania is only 80,000 votes--yet the media says there is 
no evidence of widespread fraud. 
• In the state of Arizona, over 36,000 ballots were illegally cast by non-citizens. 
2,000 ballots were returned with no address, more than 22,000 were 
returned before they were ever supposedly mailed out, and there were 
11,600 more votes counted than there were actual voters. 
• The margin in Arizona is only 10,000 votes--yet the media says there is no 
evidence of widespread fraud. 
4 
VMH-00002704  • In Clark County, Nevada, the settings on the signature verification machines 
were purposefully lowered before they were used to count over 130,000 
ballots. 
• There were also more than 42,000 double votes in Nevada. 
• Over 1,500 ballots were cast by individuals whose name and date of birth 
matches a Nevada resident who died in 2020 prior to the November 3rd 
election, and more than 8,000 votes were cast by individuals with no address. 
• The margin in Nevada is only 33,000 votes--yet the media says there is no 
evidence of widespread fraud. 
• In Michigan, the Secretary flooded the state with unsolicited mail in ballot 
applications, sent to every person on the rolls in direct violation of state law. 
• More than 17,000 Michigan ballots were cast by individuals whose name and 
date of birth matches a person who was deceased. 
• In Wayne County alone, 174,000 ballots were counted without being tied to 
an actual registered voter. Also in Wayne County, poll watchers observed 
canvassers re-scanning batches of ballots through vote tabulation machines 
up to 3 to 4 times. 
• A career employee of the city of Detroit testified under penalty of perjury 
that she witnessed city workers coaching voters to vote straight Democrat, 
while accompanying them to watch who they were voting for--all of which is 
against the law. The same worker was instructed not to ask for any voter ID, 
and not to attempt to validate any signatures. She was also told to illegally 
backdate ballots received after the deadline, and reports that thousands of 
ballots were improperly backdated . 
• Four witnesses have testified that after officials in Detroit announced the last 
votes had been counted, tens of thousands of additional ballots arrived 
without the required envelopes, all voting for Democrats. 
In addition, there is the highly troubling matter of Dominion voting systems. In one 
Michigan county alone, 6,000 votes were switched from Trump to Biden--and the 
same systems are used in the majority of states. 
Georgia State Senator William Ligon, Chairman of the Georgia Senate Judiciary 
Subcommittee on Elections, has written a letter describing his concerns with 
Dominion in Georgia. He wrote QUOTE: "the Dominion voting machines employed 
5 
VMH-00002705  in Fulton County had an astounding 93.67 percent error rate in the scanning of 
ballots requiring a review panel to "adjudicate" or "determine" the voter's intent in 
over 106,000 ballots out of a total 113,130 ballots. The national average for such an 
error rate is far less at 1.2 percent. The source of this astronomical error rate must 
be identified to determine if these machines were set up or designed to allow for a 
third party to disregard the actual ballot cast by the registered voter." 
The letter continues: "There is clear evidence that tens of thousands of votes were 
switched from President Trump to former Vice President Biden in several counties 
in Georgia. For example, in Bibb County, President Trump was reported to have 
29,391 votes at 9:11 pm EST while simultaneously former Vice-President Joe Biden 
was reported to have 17,218 votes. Minutes later at the next update, these vote 
numbers switched with President Trump now having 17,218 votes and Mr. Biden 
having 29,391 votes, a 12,173 vote switch to Mr. Biden's favor. No rational 
explanation has been put forth demonstrating a legitimate reason for this switch in 
the vote tally." 
In addition, Senator Ligon provided an expert demonstration proving that the 
Dominion Systems can be hacked and the votes manipulated in real time because 
the devices are connected to the Internet. 
Another letter from Representative Mark Finchem, Chairman of the Arizona House 
Federal Relations Committee, attests that expert and eyewitness testimony in 
Arizona indicates that "143,000 votes were artificially injected into the ballot total." 
It is no coincidence that in every one of these cases, all of this cheating and rule­
breaking worked to the benefit of Joe Biden, and to the detriment of our campaign. 
There was an organized, coordinated, and systematic effort to steal this election 
across all the critical states. In every swing state, the Democrat fraud, irregularities, 
and illegal votes that I have just outlined vastly exceed the margin of difference and 
are more than enough to flip the electoral votes to us. We also have federal court 
cases still outstanding in Georgia, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania, which could tip the 
balance of the election. 
In addition to all of the brazen cheating and theft I have outlined, we cannot ignore 
that the election hoax was the culmination of four years of unceasing propaganda, 
disinformation, and lies perpetrated by the Democrat Party and the media. 
6 
VMH-00002706  First there was the Russia Hoax--an attempted takedown of a sitting president of 
the United States. Then there was the impeachment witch hunt. Then, there was 
the relentless campaign to induce panic, chaos, confusion, rioting, and mayhem 
during the pandemic. And finally, there was the shameless effort to protect Joe 
Biden and get him elected by any means necessary. 
The media and Big Tech's censorship of the truth about Joe Biden's corruption is 
itself one of the greatest scandals in American history. The overwhelming majority 
of Americans were prevented from learning that the Biden family took millions of 
dollars from the Chinese Communist Party in a flagrant payoff. The American 
People deserved to know BEFORE the election that Joe Biden is owned by China. 
The unprecedented censorship of this information was a rigging of the election on a 
grand scale. Yet the same media that falsely told you there was no evidence of 
Biden corruption is now telling you there is no evidence of election fraud. Congress 
and the Justice Department have an absolute obligation to investigate the Biden 
payoffs as well as the corporations that engaged in censorship. The American 
People deserve the truth--and the American People deserve accountability . 
It is a disgrace that in the United States of America, tens of millions of people are 
allowed to go vote without so much as showing an ID. In no state is there any real 
effort to verify the identity, citizenship, residency, or eligibility of those who cast 
ballots. It is also widely understood that the voter rolls are crammed full of non­
citizens, felons, people who have moved out of state, and individuals who are 
otherwise ineligible to vote--yet Democrats oppose every effort to clean up the 
rolls. This is not just a matter of domestic politics, this a matter of national security. 
So today, in addition to challenging the certification of the election, I am calling on 
Congress and the state legislatures to quickly pass sweeping election reforms so 
that the outrageous fraud we have seen in this election can never happen again. 
To everyone here today, this is not the end, it is the beginning. With your help, over 
the last four years, we built the greatest political movement in the history of our 
country. But our fight against the Big Donors, Big Media, and Big Tech is just getting 
started. 
With your help, we will pass strong Voter ID requirements. 
7 
VMH-00002707  We will ban ballot harvesting, and prohibit unsecured drop boxes. 
We will stop the practice of universal unsolicited mail-in ballots. We will clean up 
the voter rolls and ensure that every single person who casts a vote is a citizen of 
our country, a resident of the state in which they vote, and that their vote is cast in 
a lawful and honest manner. 
We will restore the vital civic tradition of in-person voting ON ELECTION DAY--so 
that voters can be fully informed when they make their choice. 
We will finally hold Big Tech ACCOUNTABLE. Congress should immediately repeal 
Section 230--and if the tech monopolies are going to abuse their power and 
interfere in our elections, they should be regulated, investigated, and brought to 
justice under the fullest extent of the law. 
Together, we will Drain the Washington Swamp and clean up the corruption in our 
nation's capital once and for all. 
We will not bend. We will not break. We will not yield. We will never give in, we will 
never give up, we will never back down, we will never, ever surrender. 
For our movement, for our children, and for our beloved country, the BEST IS YET 
TO COME. 
I want to thank you all once again for being here today. Now, go make sure that 
Congress hears your voice, sees your peaceful protest, and knows that here in this 
country, the American People Rule! 
Thank you, God Bless You, and God Bless America. 
8 
VMH-00002708 