1 
2 
3 
4 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE 
5 JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL, 
6 U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
7 WASHINGTON, D.C. 
8 
9 
10 
11 INTERVIEW OF: MARCIA STRICKLER 
12 
13 
14 
15 Tuesday, May 10, 2022 
Washington, D.C. 1 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 The interview in the above matter was held via Webex, commencing at 10:09 a.m.  1 
2 Appearances: 
3 
4 
5 For the SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE 
6 THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL: 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 STAFF ASSOCIATE 
CHIEF CLERK 
, INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
SENIOR INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 2  3 
Let's go on the record at 10:09. 1 
2 
3 Good morning. Today is May 10th, 2022, and this is the transcribed interview of 
4 Ms. Marcia Strickler conducted by the House Select Committee to Investigate the 
5 January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol pursuant to House Resolution 503. 
6 At this time, I'd ask the witness to please state your full name, and then spell your 
7 name for the record also. 
8 Ms. Strickler. My name is Marcia Strickler, and it's spelled M-a-r-c-i-a 
9 S-t-r-i-c-k-1-e-r. 
10 - Great. 
11 This will be a staff-led interview, but there may be a time that members choose to 
12 join the call and ask a few questions themselves. 
13 Ms. Strickler. Sure. 
14 - And there are a couple other staff members, like me, who may join 
15 the call and ask you some questions too. But for the most part it'll just be a 
16 conversation between you and I. 
Ms. Strickler. Okay. 17 
18 
19 
20 - And I've introduced myself to you before, but for the record my 
name is I'm an investigative counsel with the select committee. 
And then we also have on the Webex today , who is a senior 
21 investigative counsel with the committee. 
22 There are currently no members on the call. 
23 And then I'll also note that, Ms. Strickler, you're here voluntarily for this 
24 transcribed interview and that you don't have counsel present with you today, but you do 
25 have that option.  1 
2 And then just a couple kind of housekeeping matters before we get started. 
As you've heard, there is an official reporter that's going to be transcribing our 
3 conversation. And so, with that in mind, if you can just wait until I finish my questions 4 
4 before you start your answer. It makes their job a little bit easier so that we're not both 
5 talking over each other. 
6 Ms. Strickler. Got it. 
7 - And then, kind of in the same vein, just make sure that you're using 
8 verbal responses as opposed to like a head shake or something like that. He can only 
9 transcribe the things that we actually say. 
10 Does that make sense? 
11 Ms. Strickler. Yes. 
12 - Okay. And then today I'm just asking that you provide complete 
13 answers based on your best recollection. I understand a lot of the events that I'll be 
14 asking you about happened a year or more ago. And so, if you're ballparking a figure or 
15 you're not sure about an answer, feel free to let me know or just say I don't recall or I 
16 don't know the answer to that question. 
17 Ms. Strickler. Okay. 
18 - And then this is a warning or kind of a caution that we provide every 
19 witness that we talk to, and that's just that I need to let you know that it is unlawful to 
20 provide false information to a congressional investigator like myself. And so, for this 
21 interview, providing false information could result in criminal penalties under a law called 
22 the False Statements Act. And I just want to make sure that you're aware of that. 
23 And sort of like I said earlier, if you're just ballparking a figure, that's not going to 
24 be an issue. Just let me know if you're unsure about an answer. 
25 Ms. Strickler. All right.  1 - It's just concerns over deliberately false statements. 
2 Ms. Strickler. Got it. 
3 - And then, at any point today, just let me know if you need to take a 
4 break for water, anything like that. I'll try to take a break in about an hour, and 
5 hopefully we won't go much longer than about an hour and a half or two hours, so we'll 
6 get a break in there. Just let me know if you need a break at any other time. 
7 Ms. Strickler. Okay. 
8 - Great. 
9 EXAMINATION 
10 BY-: 
11 
12 
13 
14 Q Then we can start with just a little bit of background information about you. 
Can you tell me where you currently live? 
A 
Q In Austin, Texas. 
Okay. And if you could just give me a little bit of your kind of educational 
15 and professional background. 
16 A Okay. I moved here in 1981 to Austin from Houston. I went to school. 
17 worked, worked my way through school, and also spent the last probably 18 years of my 
18 career working at Dell Computer. 
19 Q Great. And other than working at Dell Computer, any other kind of 
20 professional activity or anything that you're engaged in now professionally? 
21 A I retired about 10 years ago, but I still am involved politically. I'm a 
22 political activist. I work a lot at the capitol with our legislation. I've worked with 
23 elections, both paid and unpaid, volunteer as poll worker and poll watcher. 
24 I also work on campaigns throughout Texas on various Texas State-level and 
25 municipal-level campaigns. 5  6 
1 And I'm co-director of a group called True Texas Project. It's all volunteer. It's 
2 an organization that has monthly meetings in our county. 
3 Q Okay. And can you tell me, have you ever worked on a Federal campaign, 
4 like for the U.S. House or Senate? 
5 A I have worked on the Presidential campaigns, and I have worked on a couple 
6 of congressional campaigns, U.S. congressional. 
7 
8 recall? 
9 
10 Q 
A 
Q Okay. And which congressional campaigns have you worked on, if you 
Louie Gohmert, Ted Cruz, and Donald Trump. 
Okay. And have you ever worked on a campaign for 
11 Representative Ronny Jackson? 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q I have not. 
And then, other than --did you say it's the True Texas Project? 
Uh-huh. 
Is that what it's called? 
True Texas Project. 
Other than that organization, are there any other political organizations like 
18 that that you're associated with? 
19 A There are quite a few local Williamson County, the county I live in, 
20 Republican groups that I attend. Leander Area Republican Women is one of them I go to 
21 on a regular basis. There is another one called Moms for Liberty that I go to. I'm not a 
22 member, but I go to the meetings quite often. 
23 
24 Q 
A Okay. 
And depending on speakers at various meetings throughout our county, if 
25 it's a good speaker, I'll go, but you won't find me on the member roster.  7 
1 Q Okay. Let's talk a little bit about the Oath Keepers and your involvement 
2 with them. 
3 Can you tell me when you first met or --well, first I'll ask, have you met 
4 Mr. Rhodes, Mr. Stewart Rhodes? 
5 
6 
7 A 
Q 
A I have. 
Okay. And can you tell me when you first met him? 
I don't know the exact date, and I don't know the exact timing, but it was 
8 probably at least 5 years ago. 
9 
10 Q 
A And how did you meet him? 
I knew of him prior to 5 years ago, just because he has been in the news and 
11 been very active in various hurricanes, tornados, things like that in the area. But I 
12 actually met him, I believe, at the capitol in Texas at a rally, is where I believe I first 
13 actually met him face to face. 
14 
15 Q 
A So you were familiar with him through some of your disaster relief work? 
The disaster relief work is primarily how I got to know him, because we have 
16 a lot of hurricanes in this territory, and that was one of many groups that I was involved 
17 with that got involved and showed up to help, kind of like Red Cross. 
18 Q 
19 Keepers? 
20 
21 A 
Q And when you say that group, you mean Mr. Rhodes' group, the Oath 
Correct. The local chapter. The Texas chapter. 
Were there any particular, other than Mr. Rhodes, any other Oath Keepers 
22 that you were particularly familiar with and that you knew well? 
23 A None that I know well. I mean, I know some of their names from being on 
24 some of their Signal chats, but not anybody that I've ever spent any particular time with. 
25 Q As far as other Oath Keepers that you've met in person, is that a big  8 
1 number? Can we talk about who those folks might be? 
2 A Well, the various things that they get involved with, like at the capitol, for 
3 example, there might be five --five men, maybe even a woman, but usually about five or 
4 six men, something like that. I could not tell you their names. I mean, I'm not --I know 
5 my children's names, but I'm not great at names. 
6 Q So then other than Mr. Rhodes, would you say you don't know any other 
7 Oath Keepers by name, or are there others that you can think of? 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 A 
Q 
A I do know a fellow named John Siemens. I believe he's in San Antonio area. 
Did Mr. Rhodes live with John at some point? 
I do believe he did. 
And I do know Chad Rogers. Never met him in person, but I know him by phone. 
Q And then this event that you met Mr. Rhodes at, at the State capitol, do you 
13 recall what sort of event that was? 
14 A It probably had something to do with one of the top legislative priorities, 
15 which is why I'm at the capitol all the time, fighting for those top legislative priorities. 
16 So this past year it was probably --I don't remember the exact rally title or what 
17 we were fighting for at that point, but the heartbeat bill would have been one. Open 
18 carry, or constitutional carry is what we called it, would have been another. 
19 Various rallies tied to legislative, either the house or the senate, whoever 
20 authored the bill that was fighting for that priority would have, like, a rally at the front of 
21 the capitol, and we'd go. 
22 So I don't recall the actual name of the rally where I met him, but I met him in 
23 person the same time I met Kellye SoRelle. 
24 
25 Q They were both at that rally together? 
A They were.  1 Q So from that point, after you met Mr. Rhodes and Ms. SoRelle, can you just 
2 take me through kind of how your relationship evolved and how you became involved in 
3 the Oath Keepers? 
4 A Well, probably --in 2020 we had some problems with the election here in 
5 our county, and I was working the elections at that time as a tech support in the field. 
6 And there were about five or six, a handful of municipal races, as well as a countywide 
7 race, that planned to file a contest, is what they call them, an election contest. 
8 And I got involved in that because I was asked to do an affidavit for that 
9 lawsuit --for those lawsuits --and ended up getting very involved. And that's where 
10 Kellye SoRelle came in. She was the attorney on record. 
11 And so I got to know her really well. And, at the time, she was dating Stewart 
12 Rhodes. So got to know them both because of that lawsuit. 
13 Q Between the period 5 years ago that you had met them, and then 2020 for 
14 the election, what was your contact with or involvement with either Mr. Rhodes or 
15 Ms. SoRelle? 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A A lot on the phone with Kellye So Re lie because of that lawsuit and -­
Sorry. Just to be clear, I'm talking about before those lawsuits started -­
Before --
--and before 2020. 
Very little. Nothing with Kellye SoRelle. If Stewart Rhodes came into 
21 town and there was --you know, he may have let me know about it, and then I would 
22 have maybe some supper with him or something. I mean, it was --I can't remember 
23 dates or specifics. 
24 At one point, we interviewed him on a neighborhood watch project that we were 9 
25 doing, so he came in and did that, and we interviewed for that. I don't remember if that  10 
1 was before or after. I think it was before the election. 
2 He was on a lot of various news groups around here being interviewed, so I would 
3 see him when he was in an interview, and then sometimes we would meet up for supper 
4 while he was in town or something like that. 
5 
6 Q 
A And am I correct that you --you're not a registered Oath Keeper yourself? 
I am not a registered Oath Keeper. I'm not really qualified to --they have a 
7 qualification of being a veteran or a medic or something like that, I think, and I don't have 
8 any of those skills. 
9 Q Did you at some point want to join and you were told you couldn't, or that 
10 was just kind of your assessment, that you didn't fit the profile? 
11 A No, I didn't really ever want to join. I did communicate with Stewart and 
12 Kellye a lot through Signal, and then I would give my opinion to Stewart about various 
13 people on his chat groups when I would see something that looked to me like off, like 
14 maybe someone was, I don't know, verbally saying something that might be construed 
15 the wrong way or whatever. 
16 And so I would make a comment to Stewart saying, You might want to watch A, B, 
17 C, D, whoever it was. Seems like a hothead or somebody that has a temper problem or 
18 someone that you might want to be careful of. 
19 Because he never really wanted to have anybody on his chat groups, especially his 
20 leadership group, that would be perceived that way, I guess is the best way to say it. 
21 Q So in addition to --I know you kind of mentioned hotheads --was there 
22 anything in particular you were monitoring for or that he asked you to look out for? 
23 A No. I kind of just did it on my own. And I didn't do it regularly. I'm not 
24 one that would just sit there on their Signal chat and look. But every once in a while 
25 there might be something in the news, so I would go out to their Signal chat and just see  11 
1 what they were doing and what was going on. 
2 I was a trusted friend, I believe, is why I got added to the chats. And I gave 
3 feedback. And a lot of times the feedback, I guess, would come true, so he started 
4 valuing my opinion. 
5 Q Is there --can you think of any kind of particular instances where you had 
6 some sort of information like that, feedback or an opinion about somebody, and they 
7 became true? 
8 A I do remember that there was somebody, I don't recall the name, I believe it 
9 was in one of the Carolinas, either South Carolina or North Carolina, somewhere over on 
10 the East Coast, that was always just kind of making comments kind of just to cause 
11 disruption, you know? Kind of just a bully or whatever. And don't remember the 
12 specifics about it, but I think he ended up getting kicked out of at least the chat. I don't 
13 know about the group. Not from what I had said, but other people were seeing it, too. 
14 And that Stewart Rhodes was not always on the chat group either monitoring it. 
15 And if you know what chat's like, it's similar to anything else, Telegram or even your 
16 phone chat. You've got to kind of go backwards 2 or 3 days to see what you might have 
17 missed or whatever. 
18 So there was a lot of times that he wouldn't understand what the problem was 
19 unless he did that, because --so I just don't notice that --maybe four or five times, you 
20 know, a handful of times. 
21 Q And do you recall specific chats that you were on? Were there primary 
22 chats that you would monitor? 
23 A There was a nation chat, a national chat. There was a Texas chat. And 
24 then, when they would do group ops, different ops, like there was a --when they went to 
25 Kentucky, I think there was a Kentucky chat.  12 
1 I had friends in Kentucky, so I guess they added me because I had told them about 
2 some friends that I had there that may be aware of the territory. They had just moved 
3 there. 
4 But then when that operation or whatever you call it would be done, that chat 
5 would go away usually, or I would delete it, one or the other. It was just --let me think 
6 how --if there was any others. 
7 I think that was pretty much it. Well, and then the D.C. op chat. I was put on 
8 that. I'm very familiar with D.C., I've been there a few times, and probably why I was 
9 put on it. 
10 Q And let's talk about also kind of what on these chats you still might have or 
11 to what extent you maintained any of the chats. Can you tell me what happened with 
12 your Signal or where they are now? 
13 A So my Signal was --I created the Signal using a Google phone call --phone 
14 number --that I had gotten, and --instead of my --just the number you have for me, my 
15 cell number. Someone had told me to do that. I don't know why. 
16 But what I learned is in Google world, if you don't use that phone number, like 
17 literally talk on it, after 3 months they give it to someone else. And so I didn't know 
18 that. 
19 And I thought using it on Signal meant I was using it, but apparently that's not 
20 using it. You have to actually talk on it within every 3 months. 
21 So not too, too long ago I found out that that number had been given to someone 
22 else. Someone actually tried calling me on that number instead of my cell number. 
23 They had both numbers, I guess, and someone else answered. 
24 So when I found that out, I just deleted the whole thing. But I have since turned 
25 chat back on --I mean, Signal back on with my cell --my personal cell number, because I  1 use it for other things, not --it wasn't just Oath Keepers. I was using it for other things 
2 that I was doing, other communication. 
3 So that D.C. thing, I don't remember when I got off of it. Probably after all that 
4 mess started happening and it just got weird, so I just got off. 
5 But let's see. Not too, too long ago there was a J6 support chat group. I think 
6 they were raising money for some of the men that were in jail. And --
7 
8 Q Have you called --sorry. I'll just stop you there for a second. 
Have you tried to log back into Signal with your old Google voice number? Do 
9 you know if you could call back up that account? 
10 A I haven't, because I found out that someone else is using that number. 
11 called and talked to those people that are using that number, and they had had it for, I 13 
12 guess, a month or so. They're out of Fort Worth, and they had already put that number 
13 on, like, business cards and stuff. 
14 I was going to fight it and say, Well, that's my number. But it wasn't that big of a 
15 deal to me, so I just got rid of it and turned Signal back on with my cell phone. 
16 Q All right. We might potentially, after this interview, ask you to see if you 
17 could log into your old Signal account and see if you still have access to any of those 
18 messages. But for now that'll be fine. 
19 
20 A 
Q Okay. 
And then when --was it around the same time that the election challenge 
21 was going to be filed in Texas where you became involved with Mr. Rhodes and 
22 Ms. So Re lie, is that about the same time you started joining some of the Oath Keeper 
23 Signal chats? 
24 A Yes, it is, about that same --well, I may have been on one of the chats. 
25 think I was on one of the chats earlier than 2020 election, because --maybe remind me.  14 
1 Do you remember when the Kentucky thing happened, all that stuff in Kentucky, when 
2 that was? Was that before the election? It seems like it was. 
3 Q The Louisville, right, that I know that the Oath Keepers were present in, I 
4 believe around September, so there was some time before. 
5 A Yeah. So I was on that group chat, so that would have been before. 
6 We had some issues here in Austin with some antifa and Black Lives Matter rallies 
7 and things that the Oath Keepers came and helped with, and I probably would have been 
8 on those as well, on whatever that chat was, I don't remember the title of it, because I 
9 was actually very active in going to the capitol and fighting for these legislative priorities, 
10 and we needed some kind of security backup. 
11 I wasn't usually the one that would ask for the security, but they would be there. 
12 So that's kind of how I got to know them. 
13 Q As far as your activity on the Oath Keeper Signal chats, did anybody ever 
14 refer to you or tell you that you were providing intel, or were you like an intel group? 
15 A No, but I guess I was there on that day providing some kind of an intel. 
16 mean, I guess that's what I did, if you wanted to give it a title. I wasn't asked to do that. 
17 I wasn't --no. I mean, I guess to answer your question, no one ever told me that. 
18 The information I shared with them was information that was out on Google or 
19 out there in the internet somewhere, so --but not everyone has time to see what I was 
20 seeing, so I just posted it out there on that chat. 
21 Q Sure. That's helpful. I'm just sort of trying to understand what folks 
22 understood your role on the chats to be --
23 A I don't even know that folks knew who I was other than Stewart and maybe 
24 John. Maybe Chad. I mean, I wasn't that active on the Signals. I would watch more 
25 than I would participate unless I saw something, and then I might put in a word, or I  15 
1 would go to a Signal with Stewart specifically and tell him. 
2 Q Great. Now, I think we can start looking at --I pulled a few excerpts of 
3 some of the Signal chats that we've been talking about. 
A Okay. 4 
5 Q Specifically the D.C. Signal chats from January 6th. And those chats started 
6 earlier, so we'll look at a few that are from a couple days before the 6th and some that 
7 are right after the 6th. 
8 
9 A Okay. 
Q And we've got one of our professional staff members on the call who is going 
10 to help me with some of the exhibits. So if we could pull up exhibit 1. 
11 And I want to know if you're able to read that or if you want us to zoom in a little 
12 bit. Are you able to read that? 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 A I think I can. If you'll give me just a minute. 
Q Sure. 
A The transcriber something goes kind of right across it in my view, but --
Q I can read out loud for you the part that I'm going to ask you about. 
A Okay. 
Q And then, if you need --just let me know if you want to actually look at the 
19 document or there is something that you can't see that I'm talking about. 
20 
21 
22 chat. 
23 
24 A Okay. 
Q So this is exhibit 1. This is just one page from the DC OP: Jan 6 21 Signal 
A Okay. 
Q And there is a message that you sent, and it looks like it's in response to 
25 Stewart Rhodes, because you start the message with the initial SR.  16 
1 It says, "SR --is there someone there live-streaming that stage? If so can you get 
2 a link so we can add to monitor?" 
3 And you can also see at the top of the message that this is from January 6th and 
4 sent at 11:35 a.m. 
5 
6 A 
Q Got it. 
So a couple of questions just about that message first. 
7 You said, "Is there a link so we can add to monitor?" 
8 I was just kind of wondering who is the "we" that you're talking about there, or do 
9 you recall who "we" was? 
10 A Anybody that's on this chat that wanted to take a look and see what was 
11 going on at that stage, I think is what that was. 
12 So Kellye So Re lie was scheduled to be on one of the stages that day, and I wanted 
13 to watch what it was that she was going to say. 
14 One of the things that they were doing there were protection for VIPs, and Kellye 
15 was one of those VIPs basically that day. 
16 And she and I had spoken before, and she was real concerned about her speech 
17 and what she was going to be talking about and just kind of nervous about being in front 
18 of that big of a crowd, so I wanted to monitor what she was doing. 
19 
20 chat? 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A 
Q 
A So just to clarify, the "we" is just kind of the royal "we", everybody on the 
Yeah. 
Not a specific group of people that were monitoring? 
Not that I can recall. I don't recall a specific "we". 
Q All right. And we can take this exhibit down,-· Thank you. 
And then, leading into the 6th, I just kind of want to ask you generally, what did  17 
1 you understand was going to be happening on the 6th? And then a little more 
2 specifically, what were the Oath Keepers going to be doing on the 6th as far as you were 
3 aware? 
4 A Well, President Trump had called for people to come. And I had just been 
5 there the previous month. I wasn't going to go. But I wanted to watch. I wanted to 
6 participate. It was all over the news. 
7 And my understanding of the Oath Keepers is that they had been asked to provide 
8 protection service for three --well, four people, including Kellye --for Kellye, for General 
9 Flynn, for Ali Alexander, and for --I always forget the other guy's name --Roger Stone. 
10 I believe all of those people were going to be speaking on one of those stages, 
11 which is --I wanted to watch that, too. A lot of what was being shown on local news 
12 weren't those stages. It was just talking heads mostly. 
13 So I finally did find a place --a link. Someone sent me a link that had cameras at 
14 every one of the stages and all of the various activities going on in D.C. that I watched 
15 from home. 
16 Q You named the four individuals that you knew Oath Keepers were going to 
17 be providing some security for. 
18 Did you ever hear discussions about Oath Keepers providing security for any 
19 elected officials? 
20 
21 A 
Q 
22 Kelly Meggs? I did not. 
Okay. Do you know any of the Florida Oath Keepers, particularly 
23 A Only by name since, in the news. I've never talked with Kelly Meggs. 
24 Only just by probably the same way you know. 
25 Q So, at some point, there are some messages exchanged where Mr. Meggs  1 represents that he's been told that the Oath Keepers were going to provide security for 
2 eight Members of Congress. Does that ring any bells for you, or you don't recall any 
3 discussion of that? 
4 
5 A 
Q None. None whatsoever. 
Okay. And then I think you also mentioned that you were in D.C. the 
6 month before. Was that for the December 12th event? 
7 A I don't remember the actual date of when I went. It wasn't for an event 18 
8 like that. It was to visit my son and see him for Christmas. And he got me a tour to the 
9 White House at that time to see the Christmas decorations. 
10 
11 What happened December 12th? I'm not even sure what that was. 
Q The December 12th, if you're aware, there were two large MAGA rallies, one 
12 in November and one in December. Some people call them MAGA I, MAGA II. But it 
13 was the major Stop the Steal protests that happened in November and December in D.C. 
14 But it sounds like that's not what you were there for. 
15 A Although I was involved with Stop the Steal rallies here in Austin, that was 
16 not what I was there for. And, no, I didn't attend. 
17 Q Okay. A couple other questions about the chats. We'll just kind of go 
18 through some more of them. 
19 But one question I have for you. Another individual that shows up on the chats, I 
20 believe, is a woman named Liberty Fairfield. 
21 Do you know who that is? 
22 A I do not. 
23 
24 
25 Q We can pull up --and this is just, again, to refresh your recollection. 
If we could pull up exhibit 2. 
And you'll see this message starts with --the screenshots are from a message from  19 
1 a woman named Liberty Fairfield, or I believe to be a woman. 
2 That user name doesn't ring any bells for you? 
3 A It does not. I mean, it doesn't mean I haven't seen it before, but a lot of 
4 people on that Signal chat would use names that weren't real, like me, I used 
5 Horsewhisperer. So I don't know who that is. And I may have seen the name before. 
6 I don't recollect seeing it. But I couldn't tell you who it was. 
7 Q Okay. Great. That's fine. 
8 We can pull down exhibit 2. 
9 I want to ask a little bit about your involvement in the Oath Keepers' preparation 
10 for January 6th to the extent that you were involved at all. 
11 And to help us have that discussion, if we could pull up exhibit 3. 
12 This is --I believe there are some messages from a little before the 6th. 
13 
14 A 
Q Okay. 
Again, this is just a screenshot from the DC OP: Jan 6 21 Signal chat. 
15 Almost --well, essentially there is only one that we're going to look at that's not from this 
16 chat, so you can kind of assume that they're all pulled from the same place. And this 
17 one's a message from January 4th, 2021. 
18 And if you --if we can scroll down a little bit,-. 
19 
20 A 
Q Same here. I have a few of my teams proficient --
And I want to focus on using your --or your message at 12:57 on 
21 January 4th. I'll give you a second to read what you wrote there. 
22 A Yeah. So there had been some talk, even on FOX News, that there were 
23 going to be so many people there at the J6 that they weren't going to be able to 
24 communicate with anybody, that they were going to actually take down --it was actually 
25 all in the news.  20 
1 So I knew that they were planning this mission, so I actually put this out there. 
2 do recall putting it out there saying: Have plan B ready if your signals go down and your 
3 com ms go down, because you won't be able to talk to anybody. Which actually feeds 
4 into why I was sending some pictures that day, thinking that maybe their com ms had 
5 gone down. 
6 Q I'll just read a little bit of this into the record and ask you a couple of 
7 questions. 
8 But your message said, "Patriots --chatter indicates to be prepared to lose ALL 
9 Com ms --off-grid mode possible. Plan now to have a manual muster point/times 
10 pre-planned. Engage standard Hand-Arm Military Signals." 
11 Had you ever had any conversations with Oath Keepers before about using 
12 hand-arm military signals or preparation to do that sort of thing? 
13 A I have not, no. I probably --I don't recall for sure --found this someplace 
14 else and copied and pasted it in here, because I knew that there were other groups there 
15 that were doing similar things, similar activities. And doesn't sound like something --it 
16 doesn't sound like my words. It's probably something that I copied and pasted from 
17 someplace else. But just trying to alert this group: Hey, be prepared, you may lose all 
18 your com ms. 
19 I know how it's capable, especially in that D.C. bubble, around that Capitol and 
20 around the White House, to --I've actually lost com ms myself there several times. 
21 
22 
23 Q 
A 
Q I have as well for different events on the Hill. 
Yeah. 
Do you know, are you familiar with what sort of com ms the Oath Keepers 
24 were planning on using that day? 
25 A They usually have some kind of radio deal that they stick on their --in their  21 
1 ear, in their shirt or whatever, that I have noticed. I don't know the actual brand name 
2 or anything like that, but I do know that they talk back and forth to each other, like a 
3 walkie-talkie kind of thing. 
4 Q And did you hear, either from chatter on the day of the 6th or in 
5 conversations with anybody later, were the Oath Keepers successful in using those 
6 radios? 
7 
8 
9 
10 A 
Q 
A I don't know. I didn't hear. I mean, there may have been some -­
But you don't --
Excuse me? 
Q Sorry. I was going to say, you didn't hear anybody saying that they actually 
11 were able to use the radios on the 6th? 
12 A There may have been a post or two about it that I don't recall. But, no, I 
13 don't remember if that actually happened or not. I wasn't really monitoring things that 
14 closely. 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 Q Let's take down exhibit 3. And then we'll pull up another exhibit, exhibit 4. 
And I'll let you read, and at the same time I'll read a bit of this into the record. 
Again, this is a message from DC OP: Jan 6 21. 
A Okay. 
Q Oath Keeper Signal chat. And this one is sent on January 6th. You send 
20 your message at 10:32 p.m., so it's from --
21 
22 
23 A That night. 
Q Yeah. The night of the 6th. 
And you note, "The Senate floor just called today's Patriots 'domestic 
24 terrorists.' --get out of D.C. now. Go across the bridge toward Alexandria, Virginia. 
25 Have heard from a reliable source there may be unwarranted hotel searches tonight.  22 
1 Looking for people that entered the Capitol 'illegally' using face recognition." 
2 And really I mostly want to use this message as a way to ask you about the sorts of 
3 sources that you were talking to and relying on to provide information to the Oath 
4 Keepers. 
5 A Sure. There was tons of social media going on that whole month 
6 really --Twitter, lnstagram, Telegram, FOX News, believe it or not. I mean, there's a lot 
7 of stuff that was just everywhere. 
8 And sometimes it would be straight from the mouth of whoever the broadcaster 
9 was on FOX News. This, again, is something I must have copied and pasted. I wouldn't 
10 have known this information without seeing it someplace else. 
11 But, I mean, I would have to go back and look at what kind of various --I know 
12 Alex Jones was posting a lot of stuff. I know that --in fact, he was there. So was --I 
13 can't think of the young man that works with him. And he lives here, so it's something 
14 that people kind of monitor around here. 
15 
16 
17 Q 
A Is that Owen Shroyer? 
Owen --thank you. Owen Shroyer. 
I know Mike Adams was doing some things. I know this --I still don't --I tried 
18 looking since the last time you and I talked to find the source of the link that I was 
19 watching that had all four cameras, whatever that guy was, who I wasn't familiar with. 
20 Someone sent me that link. I never followed him before. But he was actually 
21 commenting quite a bit. People under --that were watching those four cameras were 
22 commenting. 
23 So, if I saw a comment that I thought would be useful to this group, I would copy it 
24 and paste it in to let people know. 
25 At this point, though, I had no idea if any of the Oath Keepers had gone inside.  23 
1 think that there had been some rumors that they had gone inside, but I didn't know for a 
2 fact. 
3 But almost everyone that was there, I think, were being considered domestic 
4 terrorists at some point, because they went --just because they went. 
5 Q I'm not sure I'm familiar with the source that you're talking about with the 
6 four cameras. Can you just explain that to me? 
7 A So during that day I would have normally been having a rally down at our 
8 capitol here, Texas, but I had been asked not to do that that day because there were 
9 rumors that antifa would be down there, and it would be dangerous, and they didn't need 
10 additional crowd, so on and so forth. 
11 So I stayed home, and I was looking on the various chatter groups for, like I had 
12 mentioned, I think, before, for a camera that was showing the different stages, so that we 
13 could actually watch the people. It's just kind of cool when you're --when you know 
14 people, that you're sitting there and able to watch them and see them speak or whatever. 
15 And someone had sent me --I don't remember exactly the source --a fellow that 
16 was sitting at a desk talking and monitoring about the four cameras, but he was showing 
17 four cameras, live-feed cameras, pointed to the various stages --I think there was three 
18 stages --and one camera pointed at the Capitol. And so I was watching that from my 
19 home while all of this was kind of transpiring. 
20 But that source, I don't know what it was. I mean, I'd have to go back and try to 
21 figure out who it was I was looking at. If I saw the guy again, I would recognize him, but 
22 I couldn't tell you where it was. 
23 Q Just so I understand, so three cameras pointed towards stages, and then one 
24 camera pointed towards the Capitol. 
25 Did the camera pointing towards the Capitol start before --if you recall --before  24 
1 or after some of the protesting and kind of more violent rioting happened? 
2 A Seems like it started --you know, I don't remember seeing the camera --I 
3 don't remember the Capitol with no people. So I think probably it had to have been 
4 once people started showing up at the Capitol. 
5 I mean, I remember my very first view of the Capitol seemed to have a lot --and 
6 maybe there were all kinds of people there already. I don't know. 
7 But I don't recall the Capitol just in a camera that had no people around it. So 
8 must have been right around that same time. 
9 Q All right. That's helpful. 
10 And if you --I'll try to remind you, but after this, if you are able to figure out what 
11 that four-camera view is and what you were watching, then we'd be interested in that, 
12 receiving that information. 
13 A I would think maybe there --it might show up on some of the pictures I 
14 posted. Maybe it says. I don't know. I can't look at those pictures, so --
15 
16 
17 Q 
A 
Q Sure. 
But it might be there. 
We can look into that. 
18 Any other --so you kind of just generally discussed --and, actually, we can take 
19 this exhibit down. Thank you. 
20 You kind of generally mentioned Twitter, FOX News. Are there --were there any 
21 particular individuals that you were following that you remember had useful information, 
22 or any kind of more specific sources than just generally Twitter or FOX News? 
23 A No. There was another one, I think it was Newsmax maybe, and I think it's 
24 called Real News, RBN, something like that. Real --I can't remember the actual acronym 
25 of it.  1 Just a lot. I don't have any --no. Not a particular name or broadcaster or 
2 anything like that. It was just crazy that day. 
3 Q Do you have Parler? Did you follow anybody on Parler? 
4 
5 year. 
6 
7 A 
Q 
A I do have Parler, but I don't use it. I probably haven't logged in once this 
On that day, were you following anybody on Parler? 
I don't recall. I doubt it. I doubt it. Because Parler is never something 
8 I've --I do have an account, but you won't find it active. 
9 Q All right. And then one other thing I wanted to ask about before we get 
10 into some more of the --some of the specific messages about Representative Jackson 
11 that you and I had talked about. 
12 There are some messages from both you and Liberty Fairfield about tunnels 
13 around the Capitol and the use of tunnels. 
14 Do you remember what you had learned about tunnels at the Capitol before and 
15 what you were monitoring in relation to the tunnels? 
16 A I know that there are tunnels there. I've read about them. I've heard 
17 about them. I actually saw pictures of them once upon a time, long time ago. We 
18 have tunnels here in Austin as well underneath our capitol. I mean, it's --I've even 
19 walked in those tunnels. 25 
20 I don't recall the messaging between her and them and me, but there is a way that 
21 you can safely get out of that Capitol using tunnels. I just know that there is. 
22 I can't recall what, but seems like maybe even in the Reagan days or something, 
23 he had to quickly leave or something. I can't remember the specifics, but it was all over 
24 the news about how he escaped through the tunnels or whatever. So I think everyone 
25 pretty much knows that that is there.  26 
1 I was concerned for people's safety because of what I was seeing play out right in 
2 front of me. It looked like a movie. I couldn't believe it was happening. 
3 So get out. I'm all about trying to keep people safe. So I don't recall what text 
4 message you're talking about, but I probably was telling people, there is a way out of 
5 there if you need out, if I did that. 
6 Q And do you remember --did you or do you remember any Oath Keepers 
7 doing any kind of research about the tunnels in the --around the Capitol --
8 
9 
10 
11 A No. 
Q --on January 6th? 
A No. I don't. 
Q All right. Then let's talk about some more kind of specific messages on the 
12 6th and as the protests and then eventual rioting is happening at the Capitol. 
13 So if we can pull up exhibit 7. 
14 And then, just in the middle, again this is DC OP: Jan 6 21. This is from 
15 January 6th. And there is a message about halfway down the screen, screenshot from 
16 you in Texas at 11:55 a.m., and it's pictures of some Proud Boys, in particular Mr. Biggs 
17 and Mr. Nordean. 
18 And you note, quote, "About 15 PBs located on E side (concrete side) of Capitol." 
19 A Yep. So that's one of those pictures I took from the feed. And Proud Boys 
20 had a bad --at least around here, I don't know about there --but they're instigators. 
21 You know, they cause problems. And I know that there has been a lot of news chatter 
22 about them. 
23 They had actually caused problems here in Austin too. So when I saw these two, 
24 I knew that they were Proud Boys. And so I thought it would be a good idea to let the 
25 Oath Keepers know that they're there. So I took pictures and told them about it.  1 That's one of those things that, if they were on the ground, they wouldn't have 
2 known that. So I thought it could be helpful and shared that with them. 
3 Q And did you say that you think these pictures were from that four-camera 
4 feed that you were talking about? 
5 
6 A Absolutely was. 
Q And how did that happen? As I was understanding it, it was, like, four big 27 
7 cameras, three focused on stage and one on the Capitol. Was the camera zooming in, or 
8 did they cut to somebody else that had a closer-up shot? 
9 A So what I would do is, if I saw something that I thought would be helpful, I 
10 would pause my --I would stop it. I would take a picture of it. Or, if I didn't stop 
11 it --because I probably couldn't stop it. It was a live feed. 
12 So I would take a picture of it, and then I would cut it down to a --you know, to 
13 where it was just the frame and try to blow it up and make a picture so that they could 
14 see what I was seeing. 
15 It may not have been that close on my TV until I took a picture and blew it up. 
16 Added just the picture of the people. There would probably be a bunch of stuff. You 
17 can actually see, I think, the Capitol thing in the background there. 
18 But, yeah, these were definitely taken from things on one of those live feeds. 
19 Q So did they --then is this the camera that you're talking about was looking at 
20 the Capitol, or did they --
21 
22 
23 
24 A Yeah. It is. 
Q Okay. 
A It's one of the cameras that was. 
So after nothing was happening at the stage, it was like these cameras all of a 
25 sudden were then looking at various points of the Capitol. They were no longer just on  28 
1 a stage that was blank. They moved their cameras, I guess, someplace else. 
2 Q And did this --was this like a professional, like, news outlet, or was this more 
3 of like a Facebook Live kind of interested individuals --
4 A It wasn't Face book Live. It was a link. It was one of those links that if 
5 you've ever gone to something that they're trying to monetize and make money and they 
6 want you to --and it makes noise when you give money, cha-ching or something, and 
7 there is a chat underneath it. It may have even been YouTube, but I doubt it. 
8 It was one of those. And it had four quadrants. And then sometimes the 
9 person --it's a guy. He's in his maybe thirties or forties sitting down at a desk. And 
10 every once in a while it would show him talking, but mostly it would show these four 
11 cameras on his screen. 
12 And he was monetizing what was going on out there. I never paid to see what I 
13 was --you know, I guess it's an optional thing, because I never gave money for it, 
14 but --and I don't know what app does that. Maybe you could figure that out 
15 by --maybe there is only one app that does it. I don't know. 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q Well, we'll see if we can pinpoint that. 
Yeah. 
You said --
[Inaudible] might show it, but I don't know. 
It sounded like you recognized these two individuals specifically, Mr. Biggs 
21 and Mr. Ethan Nordean. I do see at the bottom --
22 A I don't know their names. I don't know their names. But I did recognize 
23 them from seeing them in the news in the past. But, also, the guy that was on doing 
24 this, he called them out as being Proud Boys as well, so he confirmed it. 
25 Q All right. And then do you think --did he identify that they were on the  29 
1 east side of the Capitol, or is that something you're familiar with? 
2 A Both. I'm familiar with the Capitol, but he did do that too. And they were 
3 walking --even though these pictures don't show it, I recall seeing they were walking in a 
4 big group, more like 15 people. But you could tell that these were the leads. 
5 And this guy had a comms in his pocket, and I saw him fiddling with his com ms 
6 quite a bit. So apparently his com ms were working, at that moment anyway. 
7 Q And did you ever hear Oath Keepers talking about Proud Boys and what their 
8 thoughts were on the Proud Boys? 
9 A Yeah. I mean, that's kind of some of that stuff that they would talk about 
10 in chatter. You know, I ran into some Proud Boys, or we did an op with both --you 
11 know, that they both did it together, or something like that. 
12 It was just a general feel in these chats that the Proud Boys were like an egotistical 
13 group of people that were always instigating or whatever, or at least that's my opinion. 
14 And sometimes I would get that opinion from some of their comments. 
15 Q Do you recall what sort of events or ops you knew of that Proud Boys and 
16 Oath Keepers were working together on? 
17 A I don't know that they actually worked together, like preplanned it together. 
18 They just showed up --they were both there. And maybe they did preplan it together. 
19 I don't know. 
20 Even at our own capitol, there has been Proud Boys that have shown up here in 
21 Austin when, say, the Oath Keepers were the ones who probably were contacted to be 
22 there, but Proud Boys would come too. 
23 Q Do you know was there anybody in particular that seemed like they were 
24 more in contact with Proud Boys and able to call on them when they needed help? Or 
25 what was your understanding of that?  30 
No. I mean, I --no, I don't know the answer to that. 
Did you ever hear Mr. Rhodes talk about the Proud Boys? 1 
2 
3 A 
Q 
A Maybe just at a very high level. I couldn't actually quote anything he said, 
4 but I'm certain I heard him say something once or twice about the Proud Boys. I mean, 
5 they're just --it's --if anything, it would be just something like leave them alone, or 
6 they're not worthy, or something like that, you know, they're just a bunch of thugs. 
7 
8 Q Yeah. I was going to ask if you remember the general kind of --
A I don't believe that they were friends. I don't believe that they all --I mean, 
9 I think maybe --I had a sense anyway, I don't know for a fact, I had a sense that maybe 
10 there had been Oath Keepers that had gone --gotten kicked out because they weren't 
11 following rules or whatever and went to the Proud Boys. I don't know that it was ever 
12 the other way around. 
13 Q And then one more time. Sorry to belabor the point, but I wanted to ask 
14 again. 
15 Could you recall any specific events where you knew Proud Boys and Oath 
16 Keepers had met --
17 A Definitely in Austin. Definitely in Austin they had both been in various 
18 rallies in Austin that I have seen. That's really all that I have witnessed. 
19 
20 
21 Q And was that in 20 --was that in 2020, or prior? 
A Probably would have been 2019, or maybe early 2020. 
Q Okay. And then any other --anything other than those --the Austin events 
22 that you're thinking of? 
23 
24 A I'm sorry. What's your question,~ 
Q Any other events with both Proud Boys and Oath Keepers other than that 
25 Austin event that you -- 31 
1 A Not that I have witnessed. I suspect that there were, but not that I know of 
2 that I could speak to. 
3 I do think that they did some --I kind of recall now thinking they did some things 
4 in Washington, maybe not together, but they were both there. I think I remember 
5 seeing some of that with whatever all those riots were going on in Washington. 
6 Whenever that was. Wasn't that prior to the election? I think it was. 
7 Q I think you may be talking about the November and December rallies that we 
8 had talked about. 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 A Not D.C. 
Q Oh. 
A Washington State. 
Q Washington State. Okay. 
A Yeah. On the West Coast. Sorry. Did I say East Coast? I probably did. 
14 I meant West Coast. 
15 
16 Q Okay. Great. 
A I do think that there --I did remember --when I was in D.C., I do think 
17 that --I remember reading that there was a stabbing maybe that involved a Proud Boy. 
18 Maybe a Proud Boy got stabbed. I don't remember the exact, but I remember thinking I 
19 was there, but I didn't see it happen. But that was during the time period I was there 
20 whenever that happened. 
21 
22 
23 Q Yeah. That was December 12th. 
A Okay. 
- All right. Let's take --actually, it's 11:07. We've been going for a 
24 minute. Let's take a few-minute recess. We'll come back just --let's just do 3 minutes. 
25 We'll come back at 11:10.  1 
2 Ms. Strickler. Okay. Thank you. 
[Recess.] 32  33 
1 
2 [11:11 a.m.] 
3 Let's go back on the record at 1:11. 
4 BY 
5 Q And I think we were just talking about some events in the Pacific Northwest 
6 that Oath Keepers and Proud Boys might have been together at. 
7 But let's move back to January 6th. And I want to ask you about some particular 
8 messages. And I'm pulling up what is exhibit 9. Tell me if you can see that. I can 
9 zoom in a little bit. Okay. 
10 
11 
12 And are you able to see that, Ms. Strickler? 
A 
Q Yes, I can see it. 
And so this is a message again from DC OP: Jan 6 21 Oath Keeper Signal chat 
13 sent on January 6th at 3 p.m. And the message that you send is "Ronny Jackson (Texas) 
14 office inside Capitol --he needs help" --sorry --"he needs OK help. Anyone inside?" 
15 Do you recall where you learned that Representative Jackson needed help? 
16 A It wasn't a chatter. Since you and I last talked when we talked about this, I 
17 tried to go back and recollect where I got that information from. And it was from 
18 Telegram and it was from someone that did know Ronny Jackson. I tried reaching out to 
19 him, but I wasn't able to be successful in getting him. I'm no longer on Telegram with 
20 him, I don't believe, but his name is Jeremy Bravo. 
21 
22 Q 
A And that's his user name on Telegram or his actual last name? 
I think it might be his user name. I don't know. I'd have to go look. And 
23 I don't even know if I'm still on it. 
24 But I did have his phone number, so I reached out to call him, but he didn't answer 
25 and he didn't call me back, just to ask him to verify. But I thought back after we talked  34 
1 and that's where I believe that I found that. 
2 Q Okay. That's helpful. 
3 What was --do you recall what the Telegram chat was or how did you end up on 
4 that chat? 
5 A He has --it's a chat that he has that he posts a lot of stuff about --mostly 
6 links to other --that other people have, like articles and things like that, D.C. articles. 
7 This is a fellow that once upon a time ran for U.S. Congress in this area and I came 
8 to know. I guess I came to know him about 2020. I didn't know him when he was 
9 running because he ran against someone I was supporting and so I didn't support him. 
10 But he lost in the primary. 
11 And I think that he started working on one of the campaigns that I was helping 
12 with, local campaigns, is how I met him. 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 Q Do you have --
A That is probably where I believe I got that information. 
Q Okay. Do you have his phone number still? 
A I can look. 
Q Yeah. If you would be able to provide that, it would be helpful. 
A And it may not be the right number anymore. I don't know, because he 
didn't answer. And last I knew he lived in Cedar Park, Texas. 
Q All right. And then the group that he was sharing this information with on 
21 Telegram, what was that group? Was it associated with the Oath Keepers or was it just 
22 a general --
23 A No, it's his own general chat thing, not associated with Oath Keepers. Let 
24 me even see if I can find it. 
25 When I search Jeremy Bravo, it does not come up, so it must be under something  35 
1 else or maybe it's not there anymore. 
2 Q If you can --yeah, if you, after we finish speaking, if you don't mind just 
3 checking and see if you can find it. 
4 A Yeah. I mean, Telegram is all over the place out there. If something pops 
5 up and I remember it, I will let you know,_ but I am not seeing it just in a general 
6 quick search. 
7 
8 
9 Q 
A 
Q All right. 
But I am almost 99 percent sure that's where I got that information. 
And do you remember what he was saying about Representative Jackson 
10 and why he needed help? 
11 A Well, I would have copied and pasted verbatim. So whatever that is, is 
12 what he was saying. I wouldn't have made anything other than that up --I mean, more. 
13 I wouldn't have added to it. 
14 Q The only thing, though, this message that you sent says, "he needs OK help." 
15 I'm assume that's referencing Oath Keepers? 
16 A Yeah. So by this time I think there was really going chaos on the TV about 
17 all the things going wrong and you could see people running in. And maybe by that time 
18 there had already been a gunshot sound. 
19 And I know Oath Keepers well enough to know that they run to trouble, so I 
20 assumed that Oath Keepers had gone inside to help. And so that was my way of just 
21 saying people are trying to get out, you might want to try and find these people and help 
22 them get out. 
23 Q And then we can look at shortly thereafter you send another message. I'll 
24 pull that one up. And this is exhibit 8. It's from a few minutes later. The first 
25 message was at 3 o'clock, this message is at 3:08 p.m., same chat, January 6th.  36 
1 And in this instance you send what looks to be a picture of Representative 
2 Jackson. And you say, "Dr. Ronny Jackson --on the move. Needs protection. If 
3 anyone inside, cover him. He has critical data to protect." 
4 Can you tell me now what you recall? I know since we last spoke you've gone 
5 back and discovered some more information or refreshed your memory a little bit. 
6 What do you recall now about this message? 
7 A Same source, same exact, copy and paste. So it would have come from 
8 Jeremy Bravo's I'm assuming Telegram. He may have had a different way of 
9 communicating, but I'm assuming it was Telegram that I saw. 
10 It's possible that he would have sent me a direct message. He knew that I had 
11 contacts with Oath Keepers. It's possible that --I mean, y'all can find that out because 
12 you subpoenaed my phone records. So if it's there, it's there and y'all can find it there. 
13 Q Do you --so this photo you think came from him. And what was the 
14 purpose of sending this, the photo? 
15 A So they could see who Ronny Jackson was, just to know what he looked like. 
16 If they saw him, they could help him. Just not everybody knows who he is. 
17 Q Right. And then you mentioned that he had critical data to protect. 
18 A And I didn't know what that was. It was literally a copy/paste. So I 
19 don't --I don't know what it is. I still don't know what it is. You might --
20 
21 
22 
23 sure. Q 
A 
Q All right. And then --sorry, go ahead. 
I was going to say you might have to ask the author. 
Okay. And then I just wanted to go over one more time and just make 
24 So I know you said that you haven't worked on a campaign of Mr. Jackson's. 
25 Have you met him before, do you know?  37 
1 A I'm sure I have been in the same room with him before, because he, you 
2 know, he's from Texas, and we do a bunch of events, Reagan dinners and things like that, 
3 for candidates and for fundraisers. 
4 I don't remember ever even shaking his hand, but I'm certain I was in the same 
5 room with him. But no, I don't have a relationship with him. Don't have him in my 
6 phone. 
7 Q And do you know anybody that works for him, like on his campaign or 
8 congressional staff? 
9 A I do not. I mean, I might, but not that I recall. Let me just say, I know a 
10 lot of campaign staff and they move around a lot. So I would have to see their --a list of 
11 what the staff is to determine if I know them or not. But I mean --
12 
13 
14 person. 
15 Q 
A 
Q But as far as you're aware and as far as you can remember? 
Not to my awareness without seeing a list and saying, oh, I know that 
And then we'll look at one more message. These aren't from you. But I'm 
16 pulling up exhibit 10 now. Same chat, also January 6th, shortly after. 
17 And it's cut off a little bit so you can't see, but I'll represent to you that these 
18 messages are from Mr. Rhodes, Stewart Rhodes, and he's responding to your messages 
19 about Representative Jackson inside the Capitol. 
20 And Mr. Rhodes asks what he needs help with. He says, "Help with what?" end 
21 quote. And next he says, well, "Give him my cell." 
22 Do you know if anybody was able to give Representative Jackson Mr. Rhodes' cell 
23 phone number or if anybody would have --anything came of those messages? 
24 A I don't recollect. But if anything, I would have copied and pasted that 
25 message back to the source. And again, I'm assuming that source was Jeremy Bravo, I  38 
1 think it was, because I do know I was in contact with him around that time and I do know 
2 that he has a relationship with Ronny Jackson's staff. So if anything, I would have said to 
3 Jeremy Bravo what Stewart Rhodes said. 
4 Q Do you know if you did or can you remember if you gave Jeremy Bravo Mr. 
5 Rhodes' cell phone number? 
6 A That's what I was just basically saying. I don't really remember if I did. 
7 But if I did, I would have just copied and pasted what Rhodes said and sent it to Jeremy 
8 Bravo. But I don't recall if I did that. 
9 Q And you don't know --just a little more general questions. I know you 
10 don't know if Jeremy Bravo received Mr. Rhodes' phone number or gave it to 
11 Representative Jackson. But do you know if Stewart Rhodes and Representative Jackson 
12 ever got in contact on that day? 
13 A No. I doubt that they did, but I don't know. They were so busy with other 
14 things. That was just one of many things going on in that chatter that day. 
15 Q All right. Did you have any other conversations with Mr. Bravo from the 
16 day of the 6th that kind of stand out in your mind? Were there any other Members of 
17 Congress that he was in touch with or interested in? 
18 A Not that I'm aware of. I mean, I just --the reason I'm even bringing his 
19 name up is because I know that he has a relationship with that staff from a previous 
20 conversation I'd had. 
21 So I was trying to think back where would I have gotten that information since you 
22 had given it to me ahead of time and that had to have been where it was. Unless I just 
23 saw it out there in La La Land in one of the chats, which that's kind of a specific comment 
24 for it to just be out there. So I'm thinking it was probably Jeremy Bravo. 
25 Q And do you know, does Jeremy Bravo have --is he a member of any  39 
1 organizations like the Oath Keepers, like, any militia groups or --
2 A I don't think so. He's not a veteran or anything like that. Not to my 
3 knowledge is he, but I don't know. You'd have to ask him. 
4 Q Okay. And then --so let's talk about --I'll take this exhibit down. Let's 
5 just talk quickly about the evening of January 6th as you're messaging with folks. 
6 Were you talking at all actively, other than what's on the chats with Mr. Rhodes or 
7 Ms. SoRelle, or was it all through the Jan 6 DC OP chat? 
8 A I don't recall, but --I would think most of it would have been through that 
9 chat, that group chat. But it's possible that I would have sent something directly saying, 
10 are you guys okay, safe, whatever. I don't recall. I mean --
11 
12 Q That's fine. Yeah. I understand. 
A more specific question. Since we last spoke there has been some new 
13 information and new reporting about a meeting that Mr. Rhodes had in a hotel called the 
14 Phoenix Park Hotel, and this was right after --this was around 6 or 7 p.m. right after 
15 everything has gone on at the Capitol and folks kind of started to disperse. 
16 And the reporting on this meeting is that Mr. Rhodes was trying to get in touch 
17 with an individual who he believed would then put him in touch with Mr. --with 
18 President Trump. And he was trying to reach out through this intermediary to President 
19 Trump. 
20 Do you remember any conversations with any Oath Keepers, or Ms. SoRelle or Mr. 
21 Rhodes, about trying to get in touch with somebody that would basically provide a 
22 communication line to the President? 
23 A Only what's in the news. I don't recall having any kind of a chatter or 
24 discussion with the group about that. I mean, I'm aware of what you're talking about, 
25 but I think it was only just through what's been released.  40 
1 Q Okay. And have you had any conversations since the 6th, like around now 
2 when you found out about this call, or, like, have you talked to Ms. SoRelle or anybody 
3 else about that phone call? 
4 
5 A 
Q 
6 last year? 
7 A Not about that, no. 
Have you talked to --have you been in touch with Ms. So Re lie much over the 
Some. Not a lot. I mean, maybe six, seven times, something like that. 
8 have not seen her in person, but, I mean, we have talked on the phone. 
9 Q Okay. And what have you mostly --what have you talked about or what 
10 are your conversations with Ms. SoRelle about these days? 
11 A Well, since Stewart Rhodes was incarcerated it's been, is he okay, does he 
12 have good representation? I think prior to that, before he was incarcerated, those that 
13 were, it would be about, are they okay? 
14 At one point there was a J6 Signal chat set up to start raising money for these 
15 people to have counsel. She may have been on that. I don't recall. 
16 But fairly early on she was no longer on the chat group. And then she was no 
17 longer Oath Keepers' attorney. I think at one point she was Oath Keepers' attorney. 
18 But we're still friends. I mean, we're acquaintances more than nothing, but 
19 mostly because she was on that lawsuit that I was involved in with the 2020 election 
20 contest. 
21 
22 
23 
24 Q 
A 
Q 
A Here's --let's look at another message from the --
1 did call her, 1111, excuse me, after you and I first spoke, I called her. 
Okay. 
And told her I'd heard from you. And she told me that she had already 
25 cooperated with you all and that I needed to cooperate. So that was probably the last  1 time I talked to her. 
2 
3 Q Okay. Great. 
Let me pull up another one of the Signal chats. This one is from the following 
4 day, January 7th. Okay. 41 
5 So this message starts with you sending it at --you had sent a video, a short video 
6 of some individuals in Oath Keeper clothing and you asked if anybody could identify these 
7 men, are they actually ours. OK Gator 1, who is Kelly Meggs, I'll represent to you, it says 
8 that, yes, one of those people are an Oath Keeper. 
9 But what I actually wanted to ask you about is the messages at 9:06 from Ms. 
10 SoRelle. And she says, "Please delete Signal chats. All of them. Everywhere." 
11 
12 
13 
14 Do you recall receiving that message from Ms. SoRelle? 
A 
Q 
A I'm sure I did if it was on the Signal chats. 
Do you know what --
1 doubt I deleted anything. But, I mean, I have since deleted that chat or I 
15 don't have it anymore. I mean, yeah, if she sent it I'm assuming that I saw it. 
16 Q Do you know --did you ever have any conversations with her about deleting 
17 Signal chats or did she explain to you why she wanted everybody to delete the chats? 
18 A Probably not one on one. I mean, if anything, it would have been here that 
19 the discussion would have been had, you know. And maybe she was doing that out of 
20 protection of the people because of how that day went down, which is not at all what 
21 anybody expected. I don't recall ever even deleting my Signal chats, though, from it. 
22 Q All right. So then I think we have gotten to the end of the Oath Keepers 
23 Signal chats that I wanted to ask you about. But then I quickly wanted to pull up this 
24 exhibit 12. This should be the last exhibit that we're looking at. We're nearing ending 
25 the interview, just to give you a heads-up.  42 
1 But this is exhibit 12. It's a different chat called the FOS, which I believe stands 
2 for Friends of Roger Stone or Friends of Stone? 
3 A Friends of Stone. Yeah. So that was another one that I was on that I was 
4 getting information from. Now that I see it, I recollect it. Not on it any longer, 
5 but --yeah. 
6 
7 Q 
A Do you know who added you to this chat or how you got added to it? 
I don't. I don't know. I'm not a friend of Roger Stone's. I don't really 
8 know much about him other than what's in the news. 
9 Q And do you remember other --I believe or I can tell you that Mr. Rhodes was 
10 also on this chat. 
11 A 
12 Kellye on it? 
13 
14 Q 
A And he may have been the one that added me, if he was on it also. Was 
Ms. SoRelle was also on it. 
Okay. So one of them probably added me, if I had to guess. I didn't seek 
15 it out. And possibly because that's one of those VIPs that they were going to be 
16 covering. 
17 Q Did you have anything in particular that you were either looking for, or 
18 monitoring for, or certain types of information that you thought you were supposed to be 
19 telling this chat? What was your idea of why you were on the chat, if you had one at all? 
20 A Just informational, I think. I mean, I didn't even remember that I posted in 
21 it. Not even sure what that post is. What does that go to? 
22 
23 Q 
A I actually haven't --the link I think doesn't work anymore right now. 
Oh. It looks like it was a Facebook post of some sort, right? Does that say 
24 FB? I think it says FB. 
25 Q Yes, FB.ME. Yeah. And most of what you sent appears to have been links  1 to other postings? 
2 
3 A Yeah. 
Q Okay. So that's helpful. 
4 The last thing I just want to cover with you before we conclude today is just the 
5 meetings that you've had with the FBI, just so that we can get that on the record. 
6 know you've already described those to me. 
7 
8 A Yep. 
Q But if you can tell me when you met with the FBI and what you discussed, 
9 that would be helpful. 
10 A Okay. They came to my house in I think it was early May and I wasn't 43 
11 home. They left a card in my --I have a Signal at my front door, so they --the guy talked 
12 to my Signal. 
13 And when I got home, I called from the card. They wanted to meet with me 
14 similar to you. And I set up a meeting with them and spoke with them for about an 
15 hour. Same kind of things, same kind of questions. And then --and that was May 12th 
16 of 2021. 
17 And then I think around mid-June, somewhere in there, they contacted me again, 
18 had just a few follow-up questions, similar to what you've just shown me, similar 
19 questions about the post and the chat. And I met with them again. That's it pretty 
20 much. 
21 Q And then did you turn over any documents or your cell phone to them when 
22 you met with them? 
23 A I didn't have anything to turn over. They were welcome to my phone, but 
24 they didn't ask. So --
25 Q And then anything that you discussed in your conversations with the FBI that  44 
1 we haven't covered today or anything standing out in your mind that they asked you 
2 about? 
3 A No. Pretty standard. How did I know him? When did I know him? 
4 How was I involved? Specifics about --I mean, they didn't ask me about Ronny Jackson 
5 or any of that. So they --I'm not sure how deep they went into the chats or anything. 
6 I didn't get a transcript of that meeting, so I don't really know --I mean, I don't 
7 recall specifics other than it was just basically generally these same kind of questions. 
8 Q Okay. All right, then I think basically we're done. I just want to one more 
9 time --so I got the phone number for Mr. Jeremy Bravo. I think you said that he ran for 
10 office in Texas at one point. Do you remember what --
11 
12 
13 A It was --yeah, U.S. Congress on the Democrat side. 
Q Okay. 
A Against John Carter, who is the standing Congressman now. I don't think 
14 he even took it to the primary. I think he stepped down prior to the primary. 
15 Q All right. I think that we'll get some information, but I'll reach back out to 
16 you if we need anything else about Mr. Bravo. 
17 
18 A Okay. 
Q All right. Then with that, I'll just say on the record thank you very much for 
19 all your help and for being very forthcoming in your answers and going back to look for 
20 more information after we first talked. That was extremely helpful. 
21 And unless you have any questions for me or anything that you want to state for 
22 the record, then I think we can wrap things up? 
23 A Well, for the record, since you and I talked, I did receive this document from 
24 AT&T asking y'all to subpoena my phone. I don't plan to fight that. You're welcome to 
25 my phone records. I don't have anything to hide. So if there is anything there that you  45 
1 have questions about, call me. 
2 Q Will do. And just to let you know, that's something that for most witnesses 
3 that we speak to we do. And it won't be any of the contents of your messages, so we 
4 won't see anything like what you actually said or text messages or anything like that. It's 
5 just what we call the call detail messages and it's just who and when you called people. 
6 A I understand that. No problem. I mean, you might see that I have called 
7 Kellye there. You might see that I have called Stewart there. But, I mean, there's 
8 nothing wrong with that. 
9 
10 
11 Q It sounds like that's to be expected. 
A Yeah. 
Q Okay. Well, again thanks for your help. 
12 And we will end the transcribed interview at 11:38. 
13 [Whereupon, at 11:38 a.m., the interview was recessed subject to the call of the 
14 chair.]  1 
2 
3 Certificate of Deponent/Interviewee 
4 I have read the foregoing __ pages, which contain the correct transcript of the 
5 answers made by me to the questions therein recorded. 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 Witness Name 
Date 46 