Evaluation of Potential Original-Jurisdiction Suit in the Supreme Court 
• There is no legal basis to bring this lawsuit. We cannot ethically file a suit 
without a legal basis, and we are certain that if we did so, the Justices would 
promptly dismiss it. Anyone who thinks otherwise simply does not know the 
law, much less the Supreme Court. If there were a legal mechanism 
available, we would pursue it. But there is not. And this case is definitely 
not it. 
• This is very much my own view, but I wanted to make that I had the benefit 
of the views of the best lawyers at the Department. I asked Rich, I asked the 
Acting Solicitor General, and I asked Steve Engel to review this closely and 
let me know if there were anything we could do. They were unanimous in 
their conviction that this suit cannot be brought. 
• US can't sue. The United States, as a government, does not have any 
standing to challenge whether the States complied with their state electoral 
procedures. The Trump campaign or the candidate plainly does. A would-be 
presidential elector who wants to vote likely would. But the United States, 
as a government, does not have a legal stake in the winner of the presidential 
election or whether individual states comply with their own laws. 
• There is no "parens patriae" basis for the lawsuit. The drafters of the 
complaint could not identify a single case in the history of the Supreme 
Court where the United States ever brought a case like this. There is no 
legal doctrine that says that the United States may bring a lawsuit whenever 
it believes there has been a legal violation by a State. 
• The lawsuit does not ask for relief that could make any difference. The 
lawsuit would be brought against the States, but there is no longer any role 
left for the States in the presidential election. They have appointed their 
electors, and the electors have now cast their votes and sent them to 
Congress. There is nothing that the States could lawfully do now to stop 
Congress from opening and counting those votes next Wednesday, and 
therefore, the time to challenge the States has passed. 
• The Supreme Court won't hear the case. The Supreme Court rarely hears 
cases that are exclusively in its original jurisdiction as we saw with United 
States v. Texas. But this case is not even within its original jurisdiction. 
This case could have been brought in federal district court months ago, and 
that makes it certain that the Court would not even hear it. 
HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000709 