Message 
From: 
Sent: 
To: 
Subject: 
Got it Mark Meadows 
12/6/2020 4:39:40 PM 
Jason Miller Limiller@donaldtrump.com] 
Re: [EXTERNAL]2020-11-20 Chesebro memo on real deadline2.pdf 
Sent from my iPhone 
On Dec 6, 2020, at 4:36 PM, Jason Miller <jmiller@donaldtrnmp.com> wrote: 
Nope, we need the meeting/call -was just letting you know we'd been working the PR angle. 
Free to talk whenever you are tomorrow, Chief 
On Dec 6, 2020, at 4:34 PM, Mark Meadows< wrote: 
If you are on it then never mind the meeting. We just need to have someone 
coordinating the electors for states 
Sent from my iPhone 
On Dec 6, 2020, at 4:18 PM, Jason Miller 
<jmiller@donaldtrnmp.com> wrote: 
You bet. So you know, Justin and I did on-background calls on this 
very subject with Maria, Levin, Chuck Todd and Margaret 
Brennan yesterday (I might be missing 1-2 others). 
Justin -we should just do a national press call tightly focused on 
this tomorrow, no? 
JM 
On Dec 6, 2020, at 4: 11 PM, Mark Meadows ->wrote: 
Let's have a discussion about this tomorrow 
Sent from my iPhone 
MM003769  <2020-11-20 Chesebro memo on real 
deadline2. pdf> 
CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message (including any 
attachments) may contain confidential, proprietary, privileged, 
and/or private infonnation. This information is intended to be for 
the use of the individual(s) designated above. If you are not the 
intended recipient of this message, please notify the sender 
immediately, and delete the message and any attachments. Any 
disclosure, reproduction, distribution, or other use of this message 
or any attachments by an individual or entity other than the 
intended recipient is prohibited. Copyright and any other 
intellectual property rights are the sole property of Donald J. 
Trump for President, Inc. 
CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message (including any attachments) may contain 
confidential, proprietary, privileged, and/or private information. This information is intended to 
be for the use of the individual(s) designated above. If you are not the intended recipient of this 
message, please notify the sender immediately, and delete the message and any attachments. Any 
disclosure, reproduction, distribution, or other use of this message or any attachments by an 
individual or entity other than the intended recipient is prohibited. Copyright and any other 
intellectual property rights are the sole property of Donald J. Trump for President, Inc. 
MM003770 