Message 
From: OSU-ONDUTY 
Sent: 12 25 2020 8:08:05 AM 
To: 
CC: PID-JTTF ; OSU-ALL 
Subject: RE: "Armed and Ready, Mr. President": Demonstrato rs Urged to Bring Guns, Prepare for Violence at January 6 "Stop 
the Steal" Protest in DC 
ALCON, 
FYSA 
While conducting OSINT research the message board www.thedonald.win was discovered . The message board appears 
to match the below reported information . 
From: 
Sent: Thursday, December 24, 2020 10:23 PM 
To: PIOC 
Cc: PID-JTTF; OSU-ONDUTY 
Subject: Fwd: "Armed and Ready, Mr. President": Demonstrators Urged to Bring Guns, Prepare for Violence at January 6 
"Stop the Steal" Protest in DC 
PIOC, 
FYSA, please see the SITE Intel report below. 
Sent from my iPhone 
Begin forwarded message: 
From: "SITE: FRFL Threat Alert" 
Date: December 24, 2020 at 8:55:18 
To: Rapidalert .com> 
Subject: "Arme an eady, Mr. President": Demonstrator s Urged to Bring Guns, Prepare for Violence 
at January 6 "Stop the Steal" Protest in DC 
Reply-To: SITE Intelligence Group 
This e-mail contains graphics, if ou don't see them » view it online.  "Armed and Ready, Mr. President": Demonstrators Urged to 
Bring Guns, Prepare for Violence at January 6 "Stop the 
Steal" Protest in DC 
Following Twitter posts from President Trump rallying his supporters to attend an 
upcoming "Stop the Steal" protest at the U.S National Mall the day Congress will 
meet to officially decide the 2020 Presidential election, users on a pro-Trump 
online forum interpreted Trump's statements as call to take direct action: 
insisting they have finally received formal "permission" from the President to 
arm themselves for the "revolutionary" protest and to engage in political 
violence. 
VIEW ON SOURCEFEED DATABASE 
On December 19, 2020, a user began a thread on a prominent pro-Trump forum -
where users have been known to promote violence and hate speech -containing 
a recent Tweet from President Trump claiming it was "statistically impossible" 
for him to have lost the 2020 Election and thereby encouraging his followers to 
attend a "wild" upcoming "Stop the Steal" protest in Washington D.C. on January 
6. 
In addition to users on the ensuing thread organizing ride shares and lodging for 
the event, the post was met with an array of incitements from users who felt 
emboldened by the President's statement to take direct action at the event. Users 
not only threatened to attack left-wing protesters but also Democratic and 
Republic politicians and other government officials involved in the finalizing of 
the electoral college vote count. 
Multiple users targeted the Congressmen and women for intimidation, with one 
user encouraging participants to "be already in place when Congress tries to get 
to their meeting" and "make sure they know who to fear." Another user similarly 
suggested that if "congress votes against the true will of the people" and elects 
Joe Biden as President despite "all the evidence of fraud and corruption," then 
the protesters should "start marching into the chambers." 
Urging protesters to "go after the traitors directly," a user claimed that a military 
strategist gave them the advice to "have a list of their family members as well." 
Asserting that the right to bear arms was provided for "exactly times like this," 
another user spurred those participating at the January 6 event to "exercise your 
2nd amendment" if the Republican politicians refuse to support Trump's election  fraud disputes. They also insisted anyone "scared" of doing so should "stay out of 
the way." 
"Fuck [the Republican party] right back," wrote another user, urging Trump's 
supporters to "show up with guns and threaten them with death." 
In response to one user stating that they "don't condone violence" against 
politicians, a user retorted that "patriots" who are "still too cowardly to condone 
violence" are "part of the problem," exclaiming the violence "NEEDS TO FUCKING 
HAPPEN." 
A screenshot of the incitement follows: 
I etinl ~ r« ~~ hel• bUI polli08nt 111en1 h"tfltllg an ec:ros, ~ COUll!ty They 11.-d IO be 1emindtct V.t\Ot't at SI.I 0 
No I'm 1104 ooodoung violence ~ -. 
,~--rE 
Pa~ who STILL. AT THIS POINT IN TIME. -!OO oov.a«II)' IO ciondone l/iolenQO • .,. pert or lhe PfoblMI 
IT NEEDS TO F\JCKING HAPPEN 
When users inquired if Trump was in fact advocating for participants to attend 
the march armed when he published the Tweet promoting the protest, several 
users affirmed that they interpreted his statement as calling on his supporters to 
bring weapons. 
"I read that as armed," one user insisted, positing that if "everyone commits" to 
carrying weapons at the protest then "how can they stop us?" Another user 
suggested that if participants "aren't marching armed" then there is no "point" to 
marching at all. A user also claimed that when Trump made his statement he 
"knew what we will be bringing," thereby echoing a call to action previously 
made by the President in regard to the Proud Boys: "Stand back and stand by." 
Making reference to Trump's tweet asserting the event "will be wild," one user 
claimed Trump was implying the rally would be violent like the "wild West." 
Another user insisted that Trump was thereby asking protest participants to "be 
wild," asserting that a supposedly violent insurrection by his supporters has 
"always been the plan." 
"[Trump] can't exactly openly tell you to revolt ... This is the closest he'll ever 
get," the aforementioned user continued, receiving a response from a user 
declaring: "Then bring the guns we shall.'' A screenshot of the interaction 
follows: .. 
'Y He's asking you to be wild. you've always been the plan 
He can't exactly openly tell you to revolt. This is the closest he'll ever get. 
JWrm3 lnl-. p;irent s;ive repon bl ,c; (s)1E reply 
Then bring the guns we shall. 
fl' I n p. r n ~ .1v r pon c•oc rly FRFLSITEINTELGROUP.COM 
Openly denouncing and disregarding the strict gun laws of Washington D.C., 
several users declared their intentions to bring firearms and other weapons to 
the march. "Armed and ready, Mr. President," wrote one user, with another 
declaring they will "be open carrying and so will my friends.'' The latter user also 
noted that Trump's supporters have just been "waiting for Trump to say the 
word" and thereby proclaimed: "there is not enough cops in DC to stop what is 
coming." These and other examples of users announcing they are bringing 
weapons to the protest can be seen in the screenshot below:  A 
'Y Armed and ready, Mr. President. 
A perm;,I r1• p3ren1 s;,v ,epo bloc r ply 
Not telling you what to do but I will be open carrying and so will 
my friends. We have been waiting for Trump to say the word. 
There 1s not enough cops in DC to stop what is coming. 
pem,3hnk p.1rent s.1ve pon block aply 
Fantastic. I'm bringing guns. 
roply (sj1E 
fRFL.snEINTELGROUP.COM 
'Y I'm going to be bringing my guns, for damn sure. 
A 
'Y I can carry wherever the fuck I want to, and if a private property 
owner wants me to leave because of it, fine, I'll leave, but in any 
public building now, I'll be carrying however I please. 
Moreover, users on the forum strongly urged those who plan on attending armed 
to do so in large groups in attempt to avoid being apprehended by law 
enforcement. One user also suggested going to the march "in numbers so heavy 
and so protected" that they are "able to arrest treasonous members of the 
government." A user responded to the aforementioned comment opining that 
"this is what Trump expects," underscoring that the President's supporters can 
"not allow congress to certify a fraudulent election and get away with ... don't 
allow any government forces to intimidate us." 
"Numbers and organization will matter," another user commented, warning that 
"the lone wolf armed patriots" will be "picked off deep in the city" by law 
enforcement. 
Following several inquiries regarding the legality of open and concealed firearm 
carry in the U.S capital, users proposed that that participants of the protest 
should not have to abide by the law: claiming as justification that the 
"treasonous" Democratic party is responsible for committing numerous "crimes:" 
such as "stealing the election," "betraying your country to a Chinese spy," 
"murdering the elderly in nursing homes," and "killing Ambassadors and 
Americans with proxy wars or drone strikes." One user thereby proclaimed, 
"[Democrats] did what they had to do now we gotta do the same." 
User "POS" posited that because Democrats have already allegedly "broken" the 
"Rule of Law," Trump's supporters must "fall back to the next level: the Rule of 
War." Notably, the aforementioned user concluded their statement with the 
phrase "Might makes Right," a popular creed among totalitarian regimes. 
"We need to follow the law while stopping a communist takeover?" remarked a 
user, with another baselessly maintaining that the Capital's firearm ban is 
"completely unconstitutional and therefore illegal." Acknowledging that bringing 
guns to the march is "definitely not legal," one user nonetheless encouraged 
others to "2A anyway." Similarly, another user suggested that protesters should  disregard the legality of firearm carrying because "this is war and we're clearly in 
a post-legal phase of our society." 
Many users also drew on Revolutionary War language to incite violence at the 
event, with one user urging "Be there on the 6th ready for 1776" and another 
making the following incitement against Trump's opposition: 
This is taxation wi~hout represen~ation . Im nothing special and I pay 50 g's 
a year in taxes and who it goes to hates me because I'm a white male. This 
is war and these blue haired pussies are about to get capped. 
Predicting and encouraging violent unrest at the rally, user "CR6" stated that 
they would be "shocked" if the pro-Trump protesters "just stand by waving a 
bunch of flags while they go right ahead and certify an illegitimate president." 
The user then proposed that the "goal" of the protest should be to make sure 
politicians known there "WILL be consequences" if President-elect Joe Biden is 
inaugurated. CR6 asserted that the protest is a "historical opportunity" to 
"change the world," declaring that Trump's supporters will not "accept a 
fraudulent election" and that the "DC Rats" -or government officials involved in 
deciding the election -will either "listen to [their] voices" or face "their own 
peril." 
Prophesying left-wing counter-protesters engaging in altercations at the protest, 
one user asked if "citizen's arrests" would be legal, to which another user 
responded: "don't arrest," instead advocating for "Citizens firing squad." 
"Shooting tyrants is the basis of the 2nd amendment," incited another user. 
Maintaining that "peaceful action" is not an option, user "AN456" declared that 
they "do want violence" to ensue at the protest, positing: "You think a crowd of 
yelling peaceful protesters is going to actually change anything? ... If you can't 
find a use for violence, then In January, Biden will be your president." The 
aforementioned user further insisted that "people will get shot" at the protest. 
"Fun fact: no revolution has ever been won without violence," one user 
postulated, with another user insisting that Trump's supporters now have the 
opportunity to "kill the opposition." After a user responded to the latter comment 
cautioning that killing the opposition is "not a legal avenue" to secure the 
election for Trump, another user retorted, "when they are committing treason it 
is ... treason is punishable by death," with user "B2040" also thereby proclaiming: 
"I'm gonna do it anyway." 
A screenshot of the incitement follows: 
AA IO )Ou can, g,.,.. ltOII -Spoi:Of .,.,, kAnO -~· WIIO oo-or- w 1h you iatt'l. LEGAL 
AVEN\JE . ...... _,_....,.. ~ ~ 
Wl\en they.,. comm.ttioo 11.-,." Tt8150A II l)Unllhabll by dl01h '-s ·: ... -1 ... E .... ......... ~ ...... ,.,...,w.,;I: ,,,,, ., 
Im eoona do 11 llll)'Yl'a)' FRFL.SITEINTELGROUP.COM 
~ .,..,., UH ,_..., lliocl ,__, 
Copyright © 2020 All SITE Intelligence Group materials are copyrighted as outlined in the 
subscriber Terms and Agreements document. Re-distribution of SITE Intelligence Group materials 
is not permitted and is in violation of the terms of all subscriptions. 
www.siteintelgroup.com I contact I Twitter 