The Constitution and Bylaws 
of 
Proud Boys International L.L.C. 
Revised November 24, 2018 
Proud Boys International L.L.C. 
c/o The Van Dyke Law Firm P.L.L.C. 
108 Durango Drive 
Crossroads, TX 76227 
PBI 1  Article I: Purpose, Scope & Governing Law 
Section 1. Purpose 
The purpose of Proud Boys International, L.L.C .. , a Texas Limited Liability Company (the 
"Company"), shall be to establish, maintain, govern, improve and promote the welfare of a 
fraternal order to be known as the "Proud Boys" (the "Fraternity"), which shall have for its 
objects: the mutual benefit and assistance of its members; the binding by closer bonds of its 
members one to another; the rendition of mutual assistance to its members during life and after 
their death to their dependents; the extending of charity to all who need such assistance; the 
promotion of western civilization including free speech and the right to bear arms; the promotion 
of good citizenship; the training and developing of men to become positive role models as 
husbands, fathers, entrepreneurs, and civic leaders; and true patriotism. 
Section 2. Composition of Fraternity 
(a) The Fraternity shall consist of the Company, active chapters established and existing from 
time to time throughout the world, Proud Boy Elders Chapter, and the members and 
probationers of the Fraternity. No other Company, association or other body shall be deemed 
to be a constituent part of the Fraternity except as set forth in these bylaws. 
(b) References in these bylaws to "brothers" shall, unless otherwise specified or unless the 
context clearly requires otherwise, mean persons that have completed the second degree of 
initiation. The term "members" shall mean all brothers and probationers of the fraternity. 
Section 3. Use of Name. 
Except for the entities and individuals identified in the first sentence of Section 2 of this Article 
1, no entity or individual shall have the right to use the name "Proud Boys", or any insignia of 
the Fraternity, or any recognizable variant of any of the foregoing, in whole or in part, as a part 
of its name, or to identify itself or himself, or to claim affiliation with the Fraternity, without 
express written permission of this Company, which permission may be limited to a stated period 
of time. 
Section 4. Governing Documents. 
The Constitution and Bylaws of Proud Boys International L.L.C., (the "Bylaws") shall be the 
supreme law of the Fraternity. Except as provided in these bylaws, the governing law of the 
Fraternity shall be the resolutions of the Proud Boy Elders Chapter. Any bylaw, regulation, 
legislation, or resolution of any chapter of the Fraternity in conflict with any of the foregoing 
shall be null and void. Any private rituals of the Fraternity, as may be promulgated by the Elders 
Chapter from time to time, shall be incorporated into these bylaws. 
PBl2  Article II: Elders Chapter 
Section 1. Name, Role and Powers 
The terms "Elders Chapter" or "Proud Boys Elders Chapter" shall mean and refer collectively to 
the members of the Company. The Elders Chapter shall be the administrative, executive, and 
judicial head of the Fraternity, and shall have, in addition to the powers expressly provided for 
elsewhere in these Bylaws, the power to decide all questions concerning the meaning and 
interpretation of these Bylaws, and the power to adopt such other resolutions, not inconsistent 
with these Bylaws, as shall be necessary or appropriate for the welfare of the Fraternity. The 
manager of this company shall be JLVD Holdings L.L.C. However, the manager of the Company 
shall not have a vote in any affairs of the Fraternity. 
Section 2. Composition. 
The Elders Chapter shall consist of eight brothers elected from the Fraternity at large. Except as 
provided by Section 7 of this Article II, brothers of the Elders Chapter shall be elected for a term 
of one year, with such terms to expire following the election of a member to replace them. 
Section 3. Chairman. 
The Elders Chapter shall elect, from among the brothers of the fraternity, a ninth brother to act as 
Chairman and to have the powers of the Chairman set forth in these bylaws. 
Section 4. Elders Chapter Powers 
The sole powers of the Elders Chapter shall be as follows: (a) Through the Chairman, serving as 
the voice of the fraternity as a whole on matters of public concern; (b) Taking legal action on 
behalf of the fraternity; ( c) To hold property in the name of the national fraternity and collect 
suggested voluntary dues for the benefit of the fraternity or for charity; (d) To establish 
organizations, funds or trusts to which both members and non-members of the fraternity could 
contribute for charitable purposes; and ( e) To be the final authority on chapter status, 
membership criteria, and rituals of the fraternity. 
Section 5. Chapter Autonomy; Elders Not Superior. 
Except as set forth in these bylaws, each chapter of this fraternity is independent and autonomous 
from every other chapter of this fraternity. The Elders Chapter is not a chapter at all, but rather, a 
council intended to facilitate brothers with certain skills or abilities to use to such skills and 
abilities for the benefit of the fraternity as a whole. The members of the Elders Chapter do not 
hold rank or title that is superior to that of any other brother in the fraternity and, during their 
tenure in the Elders Chapter, shall remain a member of their local chapter. 
Section 6. Chairman Duties 
The Chairman is elected by the brothers of the Elders Chapter, but shall not be elected from 
among them. The Chairman may be any brother of the fraternity. The Chairman shall preside 
over the meetings of the Elders Chapter and, in the event of a tie among brothers of the Elders 
Chapter on any issue, shall be called upon to cast the tie-breaking vote. Unless otherwise 
PBI 3  mandated by the members of the Elders Chapter, the Chairman shall act as the voice of the 
fraternity as a whole on matters of public concern. 
Section 7. The First Elders Chapter 
The initial eight members of the Elders Chapter shall be 
first duty of the brothers the First Elders Chapter shall be to determine a method through which 
their successors will be selected upon the expiration of their terms. That method or such election 
must be approved by at least six of the eight Elders, reduced to written form, and added to these 
bylaws as an amendment in Section 8 below. 
Section 8. Reserved for Expansion. 
Section 9. Removal from Office. 
No brother of the Elders Chapter shall be removed from office prior to the expiration of his term 
except for death, incapacity, incarceration, or good cause as determined by the Elders Chapter in 
its sole discretion. Removal shall be based on three fourths vote of all members of the Elders 
Chapter then in office. Any member of the Elders Chapter shall have the power to resign from 
the Elders Chapter with thirty (30) days written notice to the Chairman. 
Section 10. Vacancies, How Filled 
When, for any reason, a member of the Elders Chapter leaves office before the expiration of his 
term, the Elders Chapter shall select a successor by a majority vote. That member shall serve for 
the unexpired portion of the vacated term. If the Chairman resigns, the Elders Chapter shall 
select a new chairman by a majority vote. The resigning Chairman has the privilege, as his last 
act in office, of casting a vote to break any tie concerning his successor. 
Section 11. Special Privileges of the Elders Chapter 
(a) The Elders Chapter may, by majority vote, confer the honor of the fourth degree of initiation 
on any brotherr of the fraternity who has met the criteria of Article VI, Section 2. 
(b) The Elders Chapter has the privilege of designating awards for merit, other than the fourth 
degree of initiation, which may be conferred upon a member from time to time subject to 
the criteria set forth by the Elders Chapter. 
( c) The Elders Chapter has the privilege of designating committees to perform certain functions 
related to the well-being of the members of this fraternity, provided that such functions do 
not constitute a prohibited exercise of power by the Elders. These committees may, but need 
not necessarily include, committees for bylaws, charity, merchandising, and social relations 
(to plan large events such as WestFest). The Elders chapter shall have the privilege of 
appointing one or more brothers who are not part of the Elders chapter to assist on such 
committees. 
PBl4  Section 12. Meetings 
(a) The Elders Chapter may meet from time to time at a place and manner as they may 
designate. Meetings may be conducted in person or through any means of electronic 
communication. If the Chairman is not present for the meeting, any Elder may act in place 
of the Chairman to keep order during the meeting. 
(b) Five members of the Elders Chapter shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of 
business, except that, if there are less than five members than in office, the remaining 
members may meet for the purpose of filling vacancies as provided in Section 10 of this 
Article II. A meeting at which a quorum has been established may continue to transact 
business notwithstanding the subsequent withdrawal of one or more members with the result 
that five members are no longer in attendance. 
( c) Except where a different vote is expressly required by another section of these Bylaws, a 
majority vote of those members present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be 
sufficient to approve any action of the Elders Chapter. 
( d) Promptly following each meeting of the Elders Chapter, any action taken by the Chapter 
affecting the rights and privileges of members generally shall be communicated to the 
membership of the fraternity as a whole by any means that is both expeditious and 
reasonable under the circumstances. 
Section 13. Financial Matters. 
(a) The Elders Chapter shall adopt, and monitor on a regular basis, an annual budget covering 
the revenues and expenditures of the Company. The Elders Chapter may select, from among 
their membership, a member to implement and monitor the budget. 
(b) The Elders Chapter shall have the authority, but not the obligation, to assess upon voluntary 
annual dues upon each member in an amount not to exceed $25.00 per year. The revenue 
from this fee may only be used for the operations of the Fraternity or the other limited 
purposes set form in Section 4 of this Article II. 
( c) The payment of dues is a voluntary assessment and shall not be the determining factor of 
whether a person is a member in this fraternity. 
Section 14. National Membership Records Forbidden 
The Elders Chapter shall not keep or maintain a national list of members of this fraternity. 
Article III 
Establishment and Status of Active Chapters 
Section 1. Names. 
(a) Subject to these by-laws, the active chapters shall be named by using "Proud Boys" 
followed by the city in which the chapter has been chartered. For example, a chapter 
chartered in Detroit shall be named "Proud Boys Detroit". For chapters in smaller or less 
populous states where the use of the name of a city would be impractical, the name of the 
state may be used. For example, a chapter in Providence, Rhode Island would be named 
PBI 5  "Proud Boys Rhode Island". The same name shall not be given to more than one chapter, 
and the name once given to an active chapter in a particular geographic location shall not 
be withdrawn from that location. 
(b) The naming provisions of this bylaw are for chartering purposes only. It does not require 
that a chapter maintain any kind oflegal existence. For those chapters which choose to 
have a legal existence (such as an LLC or a Corporation), this bylaw is not intended to 
impose any requirements or restrictions with respect to the naming requirements for that 
legal entity. Similar, this bylaw does not require the filing of any type of assumed name 
( d/b/a) certificate. 
Section 2. Establishment of New Chapters. 
(a) The Fraternity shall seek to expand by establishing new active chapters, and for this purpose, 
the Elders Chapter shall have the sole authority to establish chapters in locations where it 
may determine there is an interest in the Fraternity. However, the Elders Chapter may 
delegate this authority to local bodies already responsible for overseeing the creation of 
chapters in their area, or such bodies which may be created in the future. 
(b) No currently existing chapters of the fraternity shall be required to reapply for chartering. 
After the date of the adoption of these bylaws, the Elders Chapter must approve any new 
chapter of the fraternity by a majority vote. 
( c) The Fraternity was formed in the United States of America and is an American organization. 
Chapters may be formed outside of the United States of America and its territories using the 
procedures set forth in these bylaws and all members of those chapters shall be recognized as 
brothers by other chapters. However, all chapters formed outside of the United States of 
America shall bear the responsibility of complying with all laws relating to the formation of a 
fraternal organization in their home country. All chapters formed outside of the United States 
of America shall, as an additional condition of chartering, agree to the jurisdiction of the 
Elders Chapter over their activities pursuant to these bylaws. 
Section 3. Prohibition on Individual Member Discipline. 
The Fraternity recognizes that local chapters are in the best position to render disciplinary actions 
against members. For this reason, any disciplinary actions against individual members by the 
Elders Chapter is expressly prohibited. 
Article IV 
Organization and Conduct of Active Chapters 
Section 1. General. 
Each Chapter shall have the authority to create its own bylaws, which shall be the governing 
document for that chapter. The Elders Chapter shall have no authority to oversee the creation of 
bylaws for an individual chapter, except that it shall have the power to nullify any local chapter 
bylaw that conflicts with these bylaws. 
PBI 6  Section 2. Active Chapter Officers. 
Each chapter must, at a minimum, have a chapter president ( or some person with a different title 
who fulfills the duties typical of a chapter president) for the purpose of receiving 
communications from the Elders Chapter concerning matters important to the fraternity. The 
bylaws of chapters may provide for such other additional officers as the chapters may desire. All 
officers of the active chapter shall be brothers. 
Section 3. Selection of Active Chapter Officers 
Officers of each chapter shall be elected periodically for a term set forth in the bylaws of that 
chapter, or by local custom. The procedures for the election of officers, filling officer vacancies, 
and removing officers are left to the discretion of each chapter. However, all chapter officers 
must be brothers. 
Section 4. Scheduling of Active Chapter Meetings 
Each chapter shall hold regular meetings at such a time, place, and frequency as the members of 
said chapter see fit, but at least once every sixty days. A "meeting" does not include any activity 
that occurs solely through electronic means. 
Section 5. Conduct of Active Chapter Meeting. 
The form of the meeting of a chapter shall be pursuant to the ritual attached as Exhibit "A" to 
these bylaws, with additional time permitted as necessary for initiation rituals and other matters 
to be discussed in that chapter's meeting pursuant to the chapter's bylaws or local custom. Under 
no circumstances shall any person that is not a probationer or member of this fraternity be 
permitted in chapter meetings. 
Section 6. No Authority to Bind the Fraternity 
No individual or group has the authority to legally bind the Fraternity in any manner unless taken 
pursuant to these bylaws or with the express written approval of the Elders Chapter by written 
resolution. This restriction includes, but is not limited to, any attempt to bind the Fraternity to an 
agreement or promise to indemnify a third party or accept liability on behalf of any other person 
or group. 
Article V 
Membership 
Section 1: Eligibility and Non-Discrimination. 
(a) Membership in the Fraternity shall be limited to persons who were born male, who currently 
identify as male, and who have been initiated through the second degree of initiation in 
accordance with these Bylaws. 
PBI 7  (b) No person eligible for membership in the Fraternity shall be discriminated against or denied 
membership in the Fraternity on the basis of race, color, creed, national origin, veteran status, 
disability, religion, marital status or sexual orientation. 
( c) A person that believes in the inherent supremacy of any one race over another, or who is a 
member of any organization promoting the supremacy of any one race over another, may not 
become or remain a member of this Fraternity. This includes, but is not limited to, any person 
who currently identifies as white nationalist, white supremacist, or alt-right ( or any person 
who is a member of an organization identifying as such). Similarly, members of terrorist 
organizations or cells, including but not limited to Antifa, are prohibited from membership in 
the fraternity. 
Section 2: Brotherhood for Life 
Any person that has completed the second degree of initiation for the Fraternity becomes a 
brother for life, except that he may be expelled for good cause as provided for in Section 6 of this 
Article V. 
Section 3. Probationers 
(a) The term "probationer" refers to a person that has completed the first degree of initiation as 
set forth in Section 1 of Article VI of these bylaws. The vetting of probationers to become 
brothers shall be at the discretion of the chapters, provided that the chapter complies with 
Section 1 of this Article V. 
(b) The vetting of probationers through forced consumption of drugs or alcohol, physical 
training, corporal punishment, involuntary labor, sexual conduct, or any type of initiation or 
hazing ritual other than those rituals approved by Article VI of these bylaws is strictly 
prohibited. 
( c) Probationers may be removed from the fraternity by their chapter in accordance with any 
bylaw or local custom of that chapter, except for such rules or local customs that may be 
inconsistent with these bylaws. 
Section 4. Brothers. 
(a) All persons given the honors of the second degree of initiation shall be brothers for life as 
provided in Section 2 of this Article V. 
(b) A chapter may, but shall not have the obligation to, keep a list of active members of its 
chapter. In no event shall the membership list of a local chapter be disclosed to any person 
who is not a brother of the fraternity. A chapter shall immediately notify the Elders Chapter 
upon receipt of any legal process (summons, subpoena, discovery request, etc.) compelling 
the turnover of such lists. 
PBI 8  ( c) Any brother who relocates from one geographical territory to another shall be entitled to have 
his membership transferred to that territory, provided that he was a member in good standing 
of the chapter of which he departed. 
Section 5: Dues and Fees 
An active chapter may, as a condition of membership, impose annual or monthly dues for 
membership in the chapter. If a chapter imposes monthly dues for membership, it shall not 
require the payment of dues by any brother who is indigent or who is otherwise unable to pay 
dues due to financial hardship. 
Section 6: Discipline of Members 
(a) Authority. Except as provided in these bylaws, the sole and exclusive authority, as well as 
the responsibility, for the discipline of members rests with the individual chapters. It is 
strongly recommended, but not required, that each chapter develop its own written "Proud 
Boy Sharia Court" procedures. 
(b) Authorized Discipline. A brother may only be disciplined for violations of these bylaws, of 
his chapter's bylaws, or for a violation of state or federal law so grievous that a failure to 
discipline the brother would injure the name and reputation of the fraternity. 
(c) Ex Post Facto Discipline Prohibited. No brother may be disciplined for any violation of 
these bylaws, a chapter rule or bylaw, or other rules that occurred prior to the formal 
adoption and publication of said bylaw or rule. 
( d) Methods of Chapter Discipline. The following methods of discipline are approved for use 
by chapters of the Fraternity: 
1. Reprimand. This is a formal warning under which a brother is notified that he has 
violated the bylaws or other rules, and that further violations will result in additional 
discipline. 
11. Fine. Misconduct by a brother may be punished by a fine. The amount of the fine should 
be commensurate with the offense committed and the disciplinary history of the brother. 
111. Probation. A chapter may place one of its brothers on probation for a period during 
which time the brother's activities ( other than his right to vote), may be restricted. 
1v. Suspension. A chapter may suspend a brother for a period ofup to one year. During this 
time, the brother may not purport to be a member of the Fraternity and shall not be entitled 
to participate in any activities of the Fraternity. A brother that is suspended is no longer 
considered to be in good standing with the Fraternity and may not transfer his membership 
to another chapter. 
PBI 9  v. Expulsion. This is the ultimate sanction for a member and results in permanent separation 
from the Fraternity. Upon imposing this sanction, the chapter shall notify the Elders 
Chapter of the name of the brother who has been expelled and shall provide the Elders 
Chapter with a concise list of reasons for the expulsion. The chapter shall cooperate with 
any investigation of the Elders Chapter relating to expulsion. 
(e) Disciplinary Appeals. Unless the disciplinary action constituted a violation of these bylaws, 
the Elders Chapter lacks jurisdiction to consider appeals of reprimands, fine, probations, or 
suspensions. In the event of an expulsion, the Elders Chapter may, at its own discretion, 
consider the expulsion of the brother. If the Elders Chapter finds that the sanction was 
manifestly unjust and incompatible with the principles of fraternal brotherhood, it may pass a 
resolution censuring the chapter responsible for the expulsion and permit the brother to 
transfer to a different chapter. 
(f) Automatic Suspension. An active chapter may include provisions in its bylaws for 
automatic suspension of members who fail to meet chapter attendance standards or who fail 
to remain current on financial obligations to the chapter. An automatic suspension must 
permit automatic reinstatement of a member, with no further discipline, once noncompliance 
with the standard is cured. 
Section 7. Voluntary Inactive Status 
It is the policy of the Fraternity to accommodate members to the greatest extent possible. The 
Fraternity understands that it is possible that a brother could be placed in a position where his 
membership in the Fraternity could cause legal harm to the member or could be inconsistent with 
his legal obligations. For this reason, any member of the Fraternity who is a brother may request 
that his chapter place him on voluntary inactive status. A member seeking to return from 
voluntary inactive status must simply notify his prior chapter, or the president of any chapter to 
which he has transferred his membership, and pay any then due financial assessments of the 
chapter. 
Section 8. Good Standing 
A brother is considered in good standing unless he is suspended, expelled, or on voluntary 
inactive status. 
Section 9. Privileges of Membership. 
All brothers who are in good standing shall enjoy all of the privileges of membership granted by 
this Constitution and Bylaws or as may be granted by the Elders Chapter. They may attend any 
meeting of any Proud Boys chapter. They may address, vote, and hold office in their home 
chapter. They may purchase and wear the name, insignia, and colors of the Fraternity. 
PBI 10  Article VI 
Degrees of Initiation and Traditions 
Section 1. Rites of Initiation 
(a) The first degree of initiation shall be a video or personal appearance at a meeting in which 
the probationer (a) states his true legal name; (b) states his desire to be a Proud Boy; and (c) 
recites the Fraternity Creed. Upon completion of the first degree of initiation, a person is 
considered a "probationer" and shall submit to his local chapter for vetting so as to ensure 
suitability for membership. 
(b) The second degree of initiation shall follow the following procedure: 
1. The second degree of initiation shall be explained fully to the probationer. After an 
explanation of the second degree, the brother supervising the second degree will ask the 
probationer ifhe understands what is about to happen to him. 
11. Upon receiving an answer in the affirmative, the supervising brother shall inform the 
probationer that it is not the desire of any brother that he suffer physical injury during the 
second degree, but a possibility exists that he may be injured. He shall then ask the 
probationer if he understands. 
111. Upon receiving an answer in the affirmative, the supervising brother shall inform the 
probationer that, upon completion of his second degree, he will be a brother for life and 
shall ensure that the probationer understands the implications of this fact (including his 
continued obligation to obey these bylaws). 
1v. Once probationer has responded in such a manner as to ensure that the probationer 
understands the second degree and the implications thereof, the probationer shall be 
surrounded by a minimum of five brothers, instructed to stand with his arms at his sides 
with his hands protecting his genitals, and to recite the Fraternity together with the 
supervising brother. 
v. Immediately after reciting the Fraternity Creed, the supervising brother shall instruct to 
probationer to name five breakfast cereals. At that time, the five brothers surrounding the 
probationer shall begin punching the probationer only in the arms and torso area of his 
body until such a time as he recites the names of five breakfast cereals. The supervising 
brother shall count the cereals aloud and the punching shall immediately cease once either 
(a) the fifth breakfast cereal is reached; or (b) the probationer indicates through words or 
actions that he is unable to continue and wishes to withdraw from the Fraternity. It is the 
responsibility of the supervising brother to protect the probationer undergoing his second 
degree from serious injury. 
v1. Immediately following the second degree, the new brother should get a hug from the 
supervising brother and told "Welcome Aboard". The same should then be done by all 
others who participated in the ritual of the second degree. 
PBI 11  vn. A chapter is strictly prohibited from performing a second degree on such individuals and 
in such circumstances where the performance of the ritual would subject the probationer, 
or any other participant, to unreasonable danger or risk of physical injury. If a probationer 
suffers from a medical condition that would make the performance of a standard second 
degree ritual unreasonably dangerous, the chapter shall inform the Elders Chapter. Upon 
receipt of such notification, the Elders Chapter shall either proscribe an alternative ritual 
or enter an order exempting the probationer from the second degree of initiation. 
(c) The third degree of initiation shall be a tattoo stating "Proud Boy" or "Proud Boys". The 
recommended format for the tattoo is attached to these bylaws as Exhibit "B" and 
incorporated by reference herein. The third degree is meant to symbolize the commitment of 
a member to truly being a brother for life 
( d) No chapter shall add to or detract from the degrees of initiation set forth herein without the 
express written permission of the Elders Chapter. Permission for deviations shall only be 
granted in extraordinary circumstances. 
Section 2. Fourth Degree of Initiation. 
(a) The fourth degree of initiation is purely honorary in nature. It symbolizes a formal 
recognition of a material sacrifice or service by a brother. The nature of such sacrifice or 
service may be for this Fraternity, for a brother in this Fraternity, or for the brother's country 
or community. Any requirement that a brother commit a violent or illegal act as a condition 
precedent to receiving a fourth degree is, by this bylaw, abolished. 
(b) Local chapters may award the fourth degree of initiation at their discretion, provided that 
their reasons for doing so are consistent with this Article VI, Section 2(a). No chapter may 
attempt to circumvent these bylaws by adopted a local requirement that any brother commit 
an illegal or violent act is a condition precedent to receiving the fourth degree. 
( c) As the founder of this fraternity, the fourth degree of initiation may be awarded sua sponte 
by Gavin Mclnnes at his discretion. 
Section 3. Traditions 
(a) Creed. The Fraternity Creed is "I am a western chauvinist, and I refuse to apologize for 
creating the modem world" 
(b) Colors. The official fraternity colors shall be black and yellow. 
( c) Crest. The crest of the Fraternity shall be as shown on the document attached hereto as 
Exhibit "C" and incorporated by reference herein. 
(d) Song. The official song of the Fraternity is "Proud of Your Boy", with music by Alan 
Menken and lyrics by Howard Ashman. 
PBI 12  (e) Dress Code. The dress code for all brothers of the Fraternity shall be a black polo style shirt 
with two lines of yellow piping on the collar and the arms, long pants or jeans, and closed toe 
shoes or boots. Probationers shall dress in a "casual" manner, but may not wear a prohibited 
item. 
(f) Prohibited Items. No member of the Fraternity shall wear flip flops, fedoras, or cargo 
shorts at any meeting or function of the Fraternity. 
(g) No Wanks. No heterosexual brother of the Fraternity shall masturbate more than one time in 
any calendar month the act occurs during a consensual sexual contact with a female who is 
not a prostitute. All members shall abstain from pornography. 
(h) Founder and Founder's Day. Gavin Mclnnes shall be recognized as the founder of our 
Fraternity. Each chapter shall observe Founder's Day on the seventeenth (17th) day of July 
and shall hold a Founder's Day celebration on or around that day in honor of our Founder, 
the Fraternity, and its ideals. 
Article VII 
Minimum Standards of Conduct 
Section 1. Preamble. 
Proud Boys is not a gang; it is a fraternity. Although the Elder' s Chapter has no right to 
discipline any member of the fraternity, it does have the right to set minimum standards of 
conduct for brothers in the fraternity. It also has the right to impose collective discipline on 
chapters that fail to discipline their members due to lack of proper vetting and/or poor Sharia 
Court procedures. Accordingly, the rules set forth in Article VII, Section 2 of these bylaws shall 
govern all chapters, members, and probationers of this fraternity. 
Section 2. Proud Boy Law. 
(a) No member shall violate these bylaws. 
(b) No member shall assist another member in violating these bylaws. 
(c) No member shall engage in any conduct, or become a member of any group, that would 
make him ineligible for membership in this fraternity under Article V, Section 1 of these 
bylaws. 
(d) No member shall engage in sexual conduct with, or attempt to engage in sexual conduct, with 
the spouse, girlfriend, or boyfriend of any other member. 
(e) No member shall engage in any act of unlawful sexual contact or sexual misconduct. 
(f) No member shall cheat, steal from, or defraud any other member. 
PBI 13  (g) No member shall consume opiates, opioids, or crystalized methamphetamine. It is an 
exception to this bylaw if the brother is using the substance pursuant to a lawful prescription. 
(h) No member shall conspire with any other member to commit any criminal act against the 
laws of their state or country. 
(i) No member shall sell, use, or distribute illegal drugs at fraternity functions. 
(j) No member shall engage in any conduct that may reasonably be construed as an attack on 
another member's home, family, or employment. 
(k) No member shall unlawfully engage in violent conduct against a member or non-member. If 
a member is unlawfully attacked, that member and other members assisting him may only 
use such force as is reasonable and necessary under the circumstances to stop the other's 
unlawful use of force against the member who was attacked. 
(1) Members who are attending a fraternity function outside of their home state shall have a duty 
to attempt to retreat from any potentially violent situation, provided that they can do so 
without subjecting themselves to further danger. 
Section 1. Fiscal Year. Article VIII 
Miscellaneous 
The fiscal year of the Company shall be form January 1 -December 31. 
Section 2. Amendments. 
These Bylaws may be amended or supplemented by 3/4 vote of all members of the Elders 
Chapter then in office 
Section 3. "10th Amendment" Provision. 
Any matter not addressed by these bylaws is, by default, left to the discretion of the individual 
chapters with the intention that they operate as autonomously as possible. 
IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED that, on the 25th day ofNovember, 2018, these bylaws were 
ADOPTED with the votes tallied as follows; 
86 
35 Aye 
Nay 
Attorney for Proud Boys International LLC 
PBI 14 