SECRETARY OF DEFENSE 
1000 DEFENSE PENTAGON 
WASH!NGTON. DC 20301-1000 
MEMORA.NDUM FOR SECRETARY OF THE ARMY 
SUBJECT: Employment Guidance fbr the District of Columbia National Guard JAN -4 2021 
This memorandum responds to your January 4, 2021 memorandum regarding the District 
of Columbia request for District of Columbia National Guard (DCNG) support in response to 
planned demonstrations from January 5-6, 2021. You are authorized to approve the requested 
support, subject to my guidance below and subject to consultation with the Attorney General, as 
required by Executive Order 11485. 
Without my subsequent, personal authorization, the DCNG is not authorized the following: 
• To be issued weapons, ammunition, bayonets, batons, or ballistic protection equipment 
such as helmets and body armor. 
• To interact physically with protestors, except when necessary in self-defense or 
defense of others, consistent with the DCNG Rules for the Use of Force. 
• To employ any riot control agents. 
• To share equipment with law enforcement agencies. 
• To use Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) assets or to conduct ISR 
or Incident, Awareness, and Assessment activities. 
• To employ helicopters or any other air assets. 
• To conduct searches, seizures, arrests, or other similar direct law enforcement activity. 
• To seek support from any non-DCNG National Guard units. 
At all times, the DCNG will remain under the operational and administrative command 
and control of the Commanding General of the DCNG, who reports to the Secretary of Defense 
through the Secretary of the Army. 
You may employ the DCNG Quick Reaction Force (QRf) only as a last resort and in 
response to a request from an appropriate civil authority< lfthe QRF is so employed. DCNCi 
personnel will be dearly marked and/or distinguished from civilian law enforcement personnel, 
and you will notif:y me immedialdy upon your authorization" 
Christopher C, Miller 
Acting 
11 IIIHIIIIIIH 11111 
OSD000020-21/CMLXXi0059 21 
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE USE ONLY JAN 6 ATTACK DoD 00000006 