Donoghue, Richard (ODAG) 
From: 
Sent: 
To: 
Cc: 
Subject: 
Jeff, Donoghue, Richard (ODAG) 
Monday, December 28, 2020 5:50 PM 
Clark, Jeffrey (ENRD) 
Rosen, Jeffrey A. (ODAG) 
RE: Two Urgent Action Items 
I have only had a few moments to review the draft letter and, obviously, there i re that would have to 
be thoroughly researched and discussed. That said, there is no chance that I thing 
remotely like this. 
While it may be true that the Department "is investigating various ir io esident" 
(something we typically would not state publicly), the investigati s spicions of 
misconduct that are of such a small scale that they simply wo Presidential Election. 
AG Barr made that clear to the public only last week, and I a ments that would 
change that conclusion. Thus, I know of nothing that wou d ve identified significant 
concerns that may have impacted the outcome of the e are always prepared to 
receive complaints and allegations relating to electio s appropriate, we simply do 
not currently have a basis to make such a stateme contrary, we have not seen the 
type of fraud that calls into question the reported election. Also the commitment that 
"the Department will update you as wear . 'is dubious as we do not typically update 
non-law enforcement personnel on t 
More importantly, I do not thi ul "nclude making recommendations to a State legislature 
about how they should mee t ppoint Electors. Pursuant to the Electors Clause, the 
State of Georgia (and eve the legal process through which they select their Electors. 
While those processes in n results may "fail[] to make a choice", it is for the individual 
State to figure out Id it arise. But as I note above, there is no reason to conclude 
that any State is election has failed to produce a choice. As AG Barr indicated in 
his public co me fraud has occurred in this election, I have not seen evidence 
that woul · idual state was so defective as to render the results fundamentally 
unreliabl nario in which the Department would recommend that a State assemble 
its legisla ady-certified election results should somehow be overridden by legislative 
· 960 Hawaii situation (and other historical anomalies, such as the 1876 
elieve t ly without precedent. Even if I am incorrect about that, this would be a grave 
Departmen e and it could have tremendous Constitutional, political and social ramifications for the 
do not believe that we could even consider such a proposal without the type of research and discussion 
h a momentous step warrants. Obviously, OLC would have to be involved in such discussions. 
I am available to discuss this when you are available after 6:00 pm but, from where I stand, this is not even within the 
realm of possibility. 
Rich 
From: Clark, Jeffrey (ENRD) <JClark@ENRD.USDOJ.GOV> 
Sent: Monday, December 28, 2020 4:40 PM 
Document ID: 0.7.2774.159720 
HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000703  To: Rosen, Jeffrey A. (ODAG) <jarosen@jmd.usdoj.gov>; Donoghue, Richard (ODAG) <ricdonoghue@jmd.usdoj.gov> 
Subject: Two Urgent Action Items 
Jeff and Rich: 
(1) I would like to have your authorization to get a classified briefing tomorrow from ODNI led by DNI 
Radcliffe on foreign election interference issues. I can then assess how that relates to activating the IEEPA and 
2018 EO powers on such matters (now twice renewed by the President). If you had not seen it, white hat 
hackers have evidence (in the public domain) that a Dominion machine accessed the Internet through a smart 
thermostat with a net connection trail leading back to China. ODNI may have additional classified evidence. 
(2) Attached is a draft letter concerning the broader topic of election irregularities of any kind. The concept is to 
send it to the Governor, Speaker, and President pro temp of each relevant state to indicate that in light of time 
urgency and sworn evidence of election irregularities presented to courts and to legislative committees, the 
legislatures thereof should each assemble and make a decision about elector appointment in light of their 
deliberations. I set it up for signature by the three of us. I think we should get it out as soon as possible. 
Personally, I see no valid downsides to sending out the letter. I put it together quickly and would want to do a 
formal cite check before sending but I don't think we should let unnecessary moss grow on this 
(As a small matter, I left open me signing as AAG Civil after an order from Jeff as Acting AG designating 
me as actual AAG of Civil under the Ted Olson OLC opinion and thus freeing up the Acting AAG spot in 
ENRD for Jon Brightbill to assume. But that is a comparatively small matter. I wouldn't want to hold up the 
letter for that. But I continue to think there is no downside with as few as 23 days left in the President's term to 
give Jon and I that added boost in DOJ titles.) 
I have a 5 pm internal ca Non-Responsive -· But I am free to talk on either or both of these subjects circa 6 pm+. 
Or if you want to reach me after I reset work venue to home, my cell# 
Jeff 
Document ID: 0.7.2774.159720 
HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000704 (b) (6) 