076P-R000002878_00001 
Message 
From: Worthington, Ross P. EOP/WHO [/O=EXCHANGE ORGANIZATION/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP 
(FYDI BO HF 23SPDL T)/CN =RE Cl Pl ENTS/CN =6AC6AE2AD3B843C9AAE6223686031824-WO] 
Sent: 1/6/202112:48:36 AM 
To: Baldwin, Brittany L. EOP/WHO [/o=Exchange Organization/ou=Exchange Administrative Group 
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/cn=Recipients/cn=fb5edd815bcd48a9b2e6a2a2c3d546aa-Ba]; Royer, Theodore M. EOP/WHO 
[/o=Exchange Organization/ou=Exchange Administrative Group 
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/cn=Recipients/cn=e76097ebe32948bd819483f40f44813e-Ro]; Bock, William IV EOP/WHO 
[/o=Exchange Organization/ou=Exchange Administrative Group 
CC: 
Subject: (FYDI BOHF23SPDL T)/cn=Recipients/cn=6bdc03e 703f6460284a3847124ec346e-Bo ]; MacDonnel I, Patrick P. 
EOP/WHO [/o=Exchange Organization/ou=Exchange Administrative Group 
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/cn=Recipients/cn=2b57dbc04731443089d3b6911f492fa1-Ma] 
Gabriel, Robert Jr. EOP/WHO [/o=Exchange Organization/ou=Exchange Administrative Group 
(FYDI BOHF23SPDL T)/cn=Recipients/cn=fl 73fd287ac2444290ed8fe6468e9b f5-Ga]; Haley, Vincent M. EOP /WHO 
[/o=Exchange Organization/ou=Exchange Administrative Group 
(FYDI BO HF 23SPDL T)/ cn=Recip ients/ en =23bd2d6a 2fb 146dc9a33 70a346f1 f530-H a] 
FW: [EXTERNAL] Fwd: Revised 
Attachments: Save America March.docx 
Can everyone please proofread given the length and the turnaround time 
From: Ross Worthington 
Sent: Tuesday, January 5, 2021 7:45 PM 
To: Worthington, Ross P. EOP/WHO <Ross.P.Worthington@who.eop.gov> 
Subject: [EXTERNAL] Fwd: Revised 
----------Forwarded message --------­
From: Ross Worthington 
Date: Tue, Jan 5, 2021 at 7:40 PM 
Subject: Revised 
To: Stephen Miller 
Cc: Vince Haley < 
attached  076P-R000002879_00001 
Save America March 
I am honored to stand before tens of thousands of devoted American Patriots who 
are committed to the honesty of our elections and the integrity of our glorious 
Republic. All of us here today do not want to see our election victory stolen by 
emboldened Radical Left Democrats. Our Country has had enough, we will not take it 
anymore! Together, we will STOP THE STEAL. 
Today, I will lay out just some of the evidence proving that we won this election, and 
we won it by a landslide. Almost 75 million people voted for our campaign, the most 
of any incumbent president in history--and we will not let them silence your voices. 
Many of you have travelled from all across the nation to be here. From the bottom of 
my heart, thank you for your incredible support of our movement, and your 
extraordinary love for this amazing country. I will never, ever forget it. 
We are gathered together in the heart of our nation's capital for a simple reason: to 
SAVE our Democracy. 
For years, Democrats have gotten away with election fraud and Republicans have 
turned a blind eye --even as Democrats enacted policies that shipped away our jobs, 
weakened our military, threw open our borders, and put America Last. 
But this year, using the pretext of the China Virus and the scam of mail in ballots, 
Democrats attempted the most brazen and outrageous election theft in American 
history. 
Now it is up to Congress to confront this egregious assault on our Democracy. We 
have come to demand that Congress do the right thing, and only certify the electors 
who have been lawfully slated. I know that everyone here will soon be marching over 
to the Capitol building to peacefully and patriotically make your voices heard. 
I want to thank the more than 140 members of the House of Representatives who 
have announced that they will object to the certification of the election results. I also 
want to thank our [14] most courageous members of the U.S. Senate: Senators Ted 
Cruz, Ron Johnson, Josh Hawley, [[David Perdue,]] [[Kelly Loeffler,]] Marsha 
Blackburn, Mike Braun, Steve Daines, Bill Hagerty, John Kennedy, James Lankford, 
Cynthia Lummis, Tommy Tuberville, and Roger Marshall. 
1  076P-R000002879_00002 
As you know, the media has constantly asserted that there is 11no evidence" of 
widespread fraud--but the American People do not believe the Fake News anymore. 
We will not be intimidated into accepting their hoaxes and lies. 
Over the past several weeks, we have amassed overwhelming evidence. Today, for 
the sake of our democracy, for the sake of our Constitution, and for the sake of our 
children, we lay out the case for the entire world to hear: 
In every single swing state, state and local officials--almost all Democrats--made 
illegal and unconstitutional changes to election procedures without the mandated 
approvals by the state legislatures--and these changes paved the way for fraud on a 
scale never seen before. 
• In Pennsylvania, the Democrat Secretary of State and the Democrat state 
Supreme Court Justices illegally abolished the signature verification 
requirements 11 days prior to the election. 
• There were over 200,000 more ballots counted in Pennsylvania than there were 
actual voters. This mathematical impossibility remains completely unexplained. 
• Over 8,000 ballots in Pennsylvania were cast by people whose name and date of 
birth matches an individual who died in 2020 prior to the election. 
• Over 14,000 ballots were cast by out of state voters. More than 10,000 votes 
were illegally counted even though they were received AFTER election day. And 
more than 60,000 ballots in Pennsylvania were reported received back BEFORE 
they were ever supposedly mailed out-which is also logically impossible. 
• 25,000 ballots in Pennsylvania were requested by nursing home residents all in 
a single giant batch--indicating an enormous illegal ballot harvesting operation. 
• The day BEFORE the election, the state of Pennsylvania reported the number of 
absentee ballots that had been sent out. Yet this number was suddenly and 
drastically increased by 400,000 ballots one day AFTER the election--it remains 
completely unexplained how an additional 400,000 ballots appeared from 
nowhere AFTER Election Day. 
• These are the facts that you won't hear from the news media--it is all part of the 
suppression effort by people who want to deceive you, demoralize you and 
control you-just like the suppression polls that said we were going to lose 
Wisconsin by 17 points, and just like the Radical left tries to blacklist you on 
social media, and indoctrinate your children in school. It is all part of a 
2  076P-R000002879_00003 
comprehensive assault on our democracy--and the American People are finally 
standing up and saying NO. 
• In Wisconsin, corrupt Democrat-run cities deployed more than 500 illegal 
unmanned, unsecured ballot drop boxes which collected a minimum of 91,000 
unlawful votes. In addition, over 170,000 absentee votes were counted in 
Wisconsin without a valid absentee ballot application, meaning those votes 
were blatantly illegal under state law--and they came 100 percent from 
Democrat areas such as Milwaukee and Madison. 
• In Madison, 17,000 votes were deposited in so-called "human drop boxes," 
where operatives stuffed thousands of unsecured ballots into duffle bags on 
park benches across the city, in complete defiance of a cease-and-desist letter 
from the state legislature. 
• According to eyewitness testimony, Postal Service workers in Wisconsin were 
also instructed to illegally backdate approximately 100,000 ballots. 
• The margin of difference in Wisconsin is only 20,000 votes--any one of these 
issues is more than enough to show that we WON the state. 
• In Georgia, the Secretary of State and Democrat party operatives entered into 
an illegal settlement agreement that drastically weakened signature verification 
and other election security procedures. As a result, Georgia's absentee ballot 
rejection rate went from an average of 3 percent in past elections, down to just 
0.3 percent in 2020--a reduction of more than 10 times. 48 counties in Georgia 
rejected ZERO ballots. 
• In other words, in a year in which more mail-in ballots were sent than ever 
before, and more people were voting by mail for the first time, the rejection 
rate was somehow drastically LOWER than ever before. The only way this can 
be explained is if tens of thousands of illegitimate votes were added to the tally. 
• If Georgia had merely rejected the same number of unlawful ballots as in other 
years, there should have been approximately 45,000 ballots rejected--far more 
than the margin. 
• There is only one reason that Democrats could possibly want to eliminate 
signature matching, oppose Voter ID, and stop citizenship confirmation: 
because they want to STEAL elections. The Radical Left knows EXACTLY what 
they are doing--they are ruthless, and it's time somebody did something about 
it. 
3  076P-R000002879_00004 
• In Fulton County, Republican poll watchers were ejected from the room under 
the false pretense of a burst pipe--which we now know to be a horrendous lie. 
Then, election officials pulled boxes and suitcases of ballots out from under the 
tables and illegally scanned them for nearly 2 hours unsupervised. This act 
coincided with a mysterious vote dump of up to 100,000 votes for Joe Biden at 
1:34AM in Georgia. 
• The Georgia Secretary of State has rejected 5 separate appeals for an 
independent and comprehensive audit of signatures. Yet the numbers of 
fraudulent ballots we have identified stagger the mind. 
• Over 10,300 ballots in Georgia were cast by individuals whose name and date of 
birth matches a Georgia resident who died in 2020 prior to the election. 
• More than 2,500 ballots were cast by individuals whose name and date of birth 
matches an incarcerated felon in a Georgia prison- people who are not 
allowed to vote. 
• More than 4,500 illegal ballots were cast by individuals who do not appear on 
the state's voter rolls. 
• Over 18,000 illegal ballots were cast by individuals who registered to vote using 
an address listed as "vacant," according to the postal service. 
• At least 86,000 ballots in Georgia were cast by people whose registrations were 
illegally backdated. 
• 66,000 votes in Georgia were cast by individuals under the legal voting age. 
• At least 15,000 ballots were cast by individuals who moved out of the state 
prior to the November 3rd election. 
• Despite all of this, the margin in Georgia is only 11,000 votes--each and every 
one of these issues is enough to give us the margin of victory. Make no mistake 
-this election was stolen, and not a single swing state has conducted a 
comprehensive audit to remove the illegal ballots. This should absolutely occur 
in every single contested state BEFORE the election is certified. 
• In the state of Arizona, over 36,000 ballots were illegally cast by non-citizens. 
2,000 ballots were returned with no address, more than 22,000 were returned 
before they were ever supposedly mailed out, and there were 11,600 more 
votes counted than there were actual voters. 
• 150,000 people registered in Maricopa County AFTER the registration deadline. 
103,000 ballots in the county were sent for electronic adjudication with no 
Republican observers. 
4  076P-R000002879_00005 
• In Clark County, Nevada, the accuracy settings on the signature verification 
machines were purposefully lowered before they were used to count over 
130,000 ballots. 
• There were also more than 42,000 double votes in Nevada. 
• Over 1,500 ballots were cast by individuals whose name and date of birth 
matches a Nevada resident who died in 2020 prior to the November 3rd 
election, and more than 8,000 votes were cast by individuals with no address. 
• The margin in Nevada is only 33,000 votes--without the cheating, we easily 
won. 
• In Michigan, the Secretary flooded the state with unsolicited mail in ballot 
applications, sent to every person on the rolls in direct violation of state law. 
• More than 17,000 Michigan ballots were cast by individuals whose name and 
date of birth matches a person who was deceased. 
• In Wayne County alone, 174,000 ballots were counted without being tied to an 
actual registered voter. Also in Wayne County, poll watchers observed 
canvassers re-scanning batches of ballots through vote tabulation machines up 
to 3 to 4 times. 
• A career employee of the city of Detroit testified under penalty of perjury that 
she witnessed city workers coaching voters to vote straight Democrat, while 
accompanying them to watch who they were voting for--all of which is against 
the law. The same worker was instructed not to ask for any voter ID, and not to 
attempt to validate any signatures. She was also told to illegally backdate 
ballots received after the deadline, and reports that thousands of ballots were 
improperly backdated. 
• Four witnesses have testified that after officials in Detroit announced the last 
votes had been counted, tens of thousands of additional ballots arrived without 
the required envelopes, all voting for Democrats. 
• At 6:31 AM in the early morning hours after the voting had ended, Michigan 
suddenly reported 147,000 votes--an astounding 94 percent for Biden, 6 
percent for Trump. Such gigantic and one-sided vote dumps were only observed 
in a few swing states--and they were always just enough to push Joe Biden 
barely into the lead. 
5  076P-R000002879_00006 
In addition, there is the highly troubling matter of Dominion voting systems. In one 
Michigan county alone, 6,000 votes were switched from Trump to Biden--and the 
same systems are used in the majority of states. 
Georgia State Senator William Ligon [Lig-in], Chairman of the Georgia Senate Judiciary 
Subcommittee on Elections, has written a letter describing his concerns with 
Dominion in Georgia. He wrote QUOTE: "the Dominion voting machines employed in 
Fulton County had an astounding 93.67 percent error rate in the scanning of ballots 
requiring a review panel to 11adjudicate11 or 11determine11 the voter's intent in over 
106,000 ballots out of a total 113,130 ballots. The national average for such an error 
rate is far less at 1.2 percent. The source of this astronomical error rate must be 
identified to determine if these machines were set up or designed to allow for a third 
party to disregard the actual ballot cast by the registered voter." 
The letter continues: "There is clear evidence that tens of thousands of votes were 
switched from President Trump to former Vice President Biden in several counties in 
Georgia. For example, in Bibb County, President Trump was reported to have 29,391 
votes at 9:11 pm EST while simultaneously former Vice-President Joe Biden was 
reported to have 17,218 votes. Minutes later at the next update, these vote numbers 
switched with President Trump now having 17,218 votes and Mr. Biden having 29,391 
votes, a 12,173 vote switch to Mr. Biden's favor. No rational explanation has been put 
forth demonstrating a legitimate reason for this switch in the vote tally." 
In addition, Senator Ligon [Lig-in] provided an expert demonstration proving that the 
Dominion Systems can indeed be hacked and the votes manipulated in real time 
because the devices are connected to the Internet. 
Another letter from Representative Mark Finchem, Chairman of the Arizona House 
Federal Relations Committee, attests that expert and eyewitness testimony in Arizona 
indicates that "143,000 votes were artificially injected into the ballot total." 
It is no coincidence that in every one of these cases, all of this cheating and rule­
breaking worked to the benefit of Joe Biden, and to the detriment of our campaign. 
There was an organized, coordinated, and systematic effort to steal this election 
across all the critical states. In every swing state, the Democrat fraud, irregularities, 
and illegal votes that I have just outlined vastly exceed the margin of difference and 
are more than enough to flip the electoral votes to us if corrected. 
6  076P-R000002879_00007 
Every fact demonstrates a clear, definitive, and overwhelming Trump victory: 
• There are 19 counties that have correctly predicted the results of every single 
presidential election in the modern era. Winning any one of these counties is a 
powerful statistical indicator of having won the election--but we didn't just win 
a few, we won 18 out of 19. 
• Democrats were projected to GAIN 15 House seats--instead, with my coattails, 
Republicans won 25 out of 26 tossup House races, and Democrats LOST 14 
seats. 
• We won approximately 12 million more votes than in 2016, a record-breaking 
increase for any president from the first election to the second. 
• We made historic gains among African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and 
Asian Americans. 
• In fact, we did better with African-American voters everywhere in the country 
EXCEPT for a small handful of corrupt Democrat-run cities in key swing states-­
such as Milwaukee, Detroit, Atlanta, and Philadelphia, where Joe Biden 
supposedly outperformed Barack Obama. 
There is virtually no one who believes that BIDEN, who barely even left his basement 
to campaign, somehow got 12 million more votes than Obama. 
In addition to all of the brazen cheating and theft I have described, we cannot ignore 
that the election hoax was the culmination of four years of unceasing propaganda, 
disinformation, and lies perpetrated by the Democrat Party and the media. 
First there was the Russia Hoax--an attempted takedown of a sitting president of the 
United States. Then there was the impeachment witch hunt. Then, there was the 
relentless campaign to induce panic during the pandemic. Then there was the effort 
to incite rioting, looting, arson, and violence in the street unless the Radical Left 
Democrats were given their way, which was an open attack on Democracy. And 
finally, there was the shameless effort to protect Joe Biden and get him elected by 
any means necessary. 
The media and Big Tech's censorship of the truth about Joe Biden's corruption is, by 
itself, one of the greatest scandals in American history. The overwhelming majority of 
Americans were prevented from learning that the Biden family took millions of dollars 
from the Chinese Communist Party in a flagrant payoff. The American People 
deserved to know BEFORE the election that Joe Biden is owned by China. The 
unprecedented censorship of this information constituted a rigging of the election on 
7  076P-R000002879_00008 
a grand scale. Yet the same media that falsely told you there was no evidence of 
Biden corruption is now telling you there is no evidence of election fraud. Congress 
and the Justice Department have an absolute obligation to investigate the Biden 
payoffs as well as the corporations that engaged in censorship. The American People 
deserve the truth--and the American People deserve ACCOUNTABILITY. 
It is a disgrace that in the United States of America, tens of millions of people are 
allowed to go vote without so much as showing an ID. In no state is there any genuine 
effort to verify the identity, citizenship, residency, or eligibility of those who cast 
ballots. It is also widely understood that the voter rolls are crammed full of non­
citizens, felons, people who have moved out of state, and individuals who are 
otherwise ineligible to vote--yet Democrats oppose every effort to clean up the rolls. 
This is not just a matter of domestic politics, this a matter of national security. 
So today, in addition to challenging the certification of the election, I am calling on 
Congress and the state legislatures to quickly pass sweeping election reforms. 
Today is not the end, it is the beginning. With your help, over the last four years, we 
built the greatest political movement in the history of our country. But our fight 
against the Big Donors, Big Media, and Big Tech is just getting started. 
We must stop the steal, and then we must ensure that such outrageous election fraud 
never happens again! 
With your help, we will finally pass powerful requirements for Voter ID. You need an 
ID to cash a check, go to the bank, buy alcohol, and drive a car--every person should 
need to show an ID in order to cast a vote. 
We will also require proof of American CITIZENSHIP in order to vote in American 
Elections. 
We will ban ballot harvesting, and prohibit the use of unsecured drop boxes to 
commit rampant fraud. 
We will stop the practice of universal unsolicited mail-in balloting. We will clean up 
the voter rolls and ensure that every single person who casts a vote is a citizen of our 
country, a resident of the state in which they vote, and that their vote is cast in a 
lawful and honest manner. 
8  076P-R000002879_00009 
We will restore the vital civic tradition of in-person voting ON ELECTION DAY--so that 
voters can be fully informed when they make their choice. 
We will finally hold Big Tech ACCOUNTABLE. Congress should immediately repeal 
Section 230--and if the tech monopolies are going to abuse their power and interfere 
in our elections, they should be regulated, investigated, and brought to justice under 
the fullest extent of the law. 
Together, we will Drain the Washington Swamp and we will clean up the corruption in 
our nation's capital once and for all. 
Despite everything we have been through, looking out at all the amazing patriots here 
today, I have never been more confident in our nation's future. 
We are the greatest country on earth--with the greatest PEOPLE on earth. 
As this enormous crowd shows, we have truth and justice on our side. We have a 
deep and enduring love for America in our hearts. We have overwhelming pride in 
this great country in our souls. And together, we are determined to defend and 
preserve government OF the people, BY the people, and FOR the people! 
We will defeat the corrupt political class--and we will lead our nation to new heights. 
Our brightest days are still ahead. Our greatest achievements still await. Our exciting 
adventures and boldest endeavors have not yet begun! 
My fellow Americans, for our movement, for our children, and for our beloved 
country, the BEST IS YET TO COME! 
Thank you again to every citizen here today and all across the country for standing 
strong. Now it is up to the men and women of Congress to do the right thing by their 
conscience, by their country, and by our Constitution. 
Thank you, God Bless You, and God Bless America. 
9 