From: 
Sent: 
To: 
Cc: Mariana Herrera • Member Services 
Sat, 14 Nov 2020 02:58:53 +0000 (UTC) 
Member Services <memberservice 
Tripp Looser -Political 
Subject: Updated Talking Points & How to get involved 
Members, 
Thank you again for joining the call this evening. 
To briefly recap, the RN · ' ing for volunteer deployme nts to Georgia, but the NRSC is hiring paid field staff positions. To sign-up, please 
email Anthony Sarros a 
The best way for volunteers to assist the RNC's efforts right now in Georgia is to make calls using Trump Talk. Anybody who would like to sign-up to make 
calls should contact Tripp looser, copied on this email. 
For additional talking points and information by state, please see below. 
Best, 
Mariana 
Mariana Herrera 
BAUOT INTEGRITY 
• This fight is not over. President Trump continues to fight for us, and we will continue to fight tor him. 
• Democrats challenged the election results for two years and wasted millions of dollars to find no evidence of collusion or wrongdoing during 
the 2016 election. 
• The American people are entitled to an honest and transparent election and the President is entitled to have this process play out. 
• Allowing these recounts and lawsuits to run their course will ensure that all Americans can be confident of the results of the election. 
• The margins are slim and there are a number of irregularities that we must look into. 
o As of 11/12, we have a combined 429 signed affidavits in five states -PA, GA, Ml, NV, WI. 
o Additionally, there have been over 12,000 incident reports filed in five states -PA, GA, Ml, NV, WI -since Election Day. 
• There are legal teams on the ground in PA, GA, Ml, NV and WI to fight back against Democrat efforts to disenfranchise voters. 
• To support the President, you can visit GOP.com to donate. 
• If you see signs of voter irregularities and fraud, please report them to h!!P..:/JQit45.coLstopfraud . 
GEORGIA 
• All ballots will be recounted by hand. Under Stacey Abrams' guidance, Democrats in Georgia have been attacking the safeguards of our 
election processes, through lawsuits, for the past four years. The hand recount began today and will need to be finished by 11/20. We must 
ensure there is transparency in the recount process and that mail-in ballots are verified. 
o In 2018, when 230,000 absentee ballots were cast, about 3% were rejected for signature mismatches or other reasons. In 2020, when 
more than 1.2 million absentee ballots were cast, the rejection rate fell to less than 1 %. 
• We have over 220 volunteers at canvassing sites and more are on the way as the hand recount starts. 
• In the top 30 most populous Georgia counties, we have the legal maximum number of observers in place. 
• The hand recount does not guarantee transparency nor does it satisfy our concerns that initially prompted our hand count request due to a 
!ack of training and directives . 
• The RNC is committed to defending the Republican majority in the U.S. Senate by holding the line in Georgia, while continuing the fight to 
ensure all legal ballots, and only legal ballots, are counted in the 2020 election. 
• The RNC has invested at least $20 million in the Georgia runoff elections and are funding 600+ staff on the ground. This builds upon the 
massive mobilization efforts the RNC had in the General Election cycle in Georgia. 
• It is of critical importance that the Senate remain in Republican control and out of the hands of Chuck Schumer and the radical Democrats, and 
we are leaving everything on the table to ensure victory. 
• "Georgians are counting on Republica ns to hold the line against the Democrats ' desire to raise taxes, pack the Supreme Court and give 
government control over their health care," RNC Chair Ronna McDaniel said. "We need Kelly Loeffler and David Perdue in the Senate, and the 
RNC is mobilizing our grassroots army to help keep them there." 
• Read more on our investment in Georgia here: Associated Press: RNC to s end at least 20 million on Georgia's Senate races 
• How to get Involved in Georgia: 
o We current! are not offerin an 
Sinners, rsinners@donaldtrump.com , or Bailee Hil 
Runoff. You can sign up at www.trumptalk.gQP . runoffs. If you are still interested in helping contact Robert 
You can also he) our team in Geor ia make calls for the Senate 
o Georgia Victory is the joint fundraising operation between the RNC, Loeffler and Perdue campaign and the Georgia GOP. We are actively 
raising money to make sure we have the resources needed to secure those two critical Senate seats. Please reach out to Member Services 
for more information on how to contribute. 
o You can also sign up to volunteer in Georgia or donate money to support Senator David Perdue and Senator Kelly Loeffler via the Senate 
Georgia Battleground Fund, a joint fundraising committee authorized by and composed of Perdue for Senate, Georgians for Kelly Loeffler 
and the NRSC, at https://www.gabattleground.com/ .  MICHIGAN 
• The Trump campaign filed a federal lawsuit in Michigan citing multiple witness accounts of irregularities , incompetence, and unlawful vote 
counting. 
o In Wayne County, Republican poll watchers were denied their legal right to monitor the election and purposely kept in the dark, both 
literally and figuratively, with poll workers blocking windows and pad-locking doors. 
o Former Michigan Assistant Attorney General Zachary Larsen filed an affidavit that he was concerned ballots in Wayne County were 
being counted without verifying that voters were in fact eligible to vote. 
o The team has found roughly 1,700 abandoned properties in Wayne County. The RNC Data is matching abandoned property addresses 
that are linked to registered voters and checking to see if those voters showed up as voting early or absentee. 
o After taking a sam pie of a list of potential dead voters that voted in the election, we identified three that cast a ballot. As a result, we 
are now taking a deeper dive into other potential deceased voters who cast ballots in Michigan . 
o To date, there have been 3,149 incident reports filed. The MIGOP Save the Vote Hotline is continuing to receive incident reports and 
review which ones merit an affidavit. 
o In Antrim County, election night results reported thousands of votes for President Trump as in<!fcurately counted for Joe Bid en, causing a 
6,000-vote swing for President Trump. 
o On Friday, November 13, the Crawford County Canvass found 132 votes for President Trump that were not previously reported. The board 
of canvassers corrected the issue and sent the results to the Michigan Secretary of State. The Secretary of State website has not yet 
reflected this change on their website. 
• How to get involved in Michigan: 
NEVADA o Between COVID restrictions and the number of volunteers we have, our team does not need additional assistance at this time. Our 
teams have called through individuals who needed to cure their ballots, individuals who filed incident reports, and individuals who needed 
to fill out affidavits. 
• There are a number of reports of irregularities that we are investigating. 
o Clark County lowered the standard on the signature verification machine that verifies the identity of absentee voters. 
• One such victim was Jill Stokke, a 79-year-old legally blind Las Vegas woman who found out when she went to vote in person that a 
mail ballot had been cast in her name and the signature verified, thus potentially stealing her vote. 
• A Las Vegas Review-Journal columnist worked with nine Clark County voters to cast a ballot with blatantly incorrect sjgnatures . 
Eight of the nine votes were accepted and counted. 
o There have been multiple verified instances of deceased Nevadans having a vote cast in their name, including Rosemarie Hartle, a 52-
year-old Las Vegas woman who died of breast cancer in 2017. 
o We have 150 volunteers and staff looking into 7,000 mail ballots cast in the general election that were Leturned as undeliverable in 
June's all-mail primary election. 
• How to get involved in Nevada: 
o While Nevada is still in open litigation, volunteers from around the country can help verify the integrity of the election and help cure 
Republican ballot signatures that have been rejected by making calls into the state. To volunteer , please visit https://nevadagop .org/get­
involved:2/ and a team member will reach out. 
PENNSYL VANIA 
• The Trump Campaign and RNC are involved in several lawsuits and are working to ensure only valid absentee and provisional ballots are 
counted. 
o In a_huge victory for election integrity, the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania sided with the Republican National Committee and 
Donald J. Trump for President, Inc. in the challenge to Secretary Boockvar's unlawful deadline extension for absentee voters to provide 
missing proof of identification. 
o The court ruled that Secretary Boockvar "lacked the statutory authority" to unilaterally extend the deadline set by law and ordered that 
the segregated ballots should not be counted. 
• Pennsylvania has a host of lack of transparency, observation , and ballot curing issues. 
• Issues in Pennsylvania include lack of transparency, observing in seven big Democrat counties, ballot curing in those counties, one set of rules 
for Democrats and one set for Republicans. 
o Regardless of the absolute necessity of uniform standards across the state, there was one system for Democrat counties in 
Pennsylvania and another system for Republican counties. 
o In seven Democrat counties, Democrat voters received text messages and emails --sometimes even sent by Democrat campaigns -­
warning them that their ballots would be canceled and how to resolve it in a timely manner. Republican voters, though, even some who 
verified in person that their vote had been cast, have records of receiving notifications of canceled ballots after the date to cure with no 
timely notification. Some voters, Democrats, were allowed to cure their ballots, but others, Republicans, were not, representing a possible 
equal protection violation. 
o Illegal ballots were counted in some Democrat counties, but ballots of the same nature were not counted in Republican counties. This  represents potentially tens of thousands of improperly counted ballots in Pennsylvania. 
o In Philadelphia, the Sheriff refused to enforce the court order allowing lawful observers to enter. 
o Pennsylvania Republican ballot count observers were in some cases lQ.Q_yards awa'i from the counting process. Even a distance of 12 
feet would make it impossible to properly observe. This lack of transparency and hindrance to observing the counting of 627,000 ballots is 
a huge problem. 
• How to get involved in Pennsylvania: 
o You can reach out to the Election Day Operations Director James Fitzpatrick. jfitzpatrick@donaldtrump.com . and help make calls to 
individuals who filed incident reports. 
WISCONSIN 
• The canvass is ongoing in the state. Once it is finished, we can file a recount request beginning around November 18th. 
o There have been reports of irregularities in several Wisconsin counties which raise serious concerns that need to be further examined. 
o In Wisconsin, there was a drastic inqg_ase in individuals who claimed to be indefinitely confined. Those claiming to be indefinitely 
confined needed to provide no reason for an absentee ballot and no ID was needed. 
• From 2019 to 2020, the number of voters who marked themselves as indefinitely confined ballooned from under 72,000 voters in 
2019 to 243,000 voters in 2020. 
• This also arose after the Dane County clerk advised voters to illegally mark themselves as indefinitely confined due to the onset of 
coronavirus ahead of the April 7th primary. 
o In Wisconsin, we have received hundreds of incident reports following the Novembe r 3rd election, and dozens of sworn affidavits. 
• How to get involved in Wisconsin: 
o Volunteers in the state need to reach out to the Trum 
, or Nick Perryma n and receive training for a potential recount. You can email 
to find out more information. 