CHRISTIAN NATIONALISM AND THE CAPITOL INSURRECTION 
Written Testimony of Andrew L. Seidel 
of the Freedom From Religion Foundation 
on the role Christian Nationalism played in the lead up to 
and during the attack of January 6th. 
Delivered to the Select Committee 
to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, 
U.S. House of Representatives 
March 18, 2022 
Dear Chairperson Thompson and Members of the Select Committee to Investigate the 
January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol: 
"Christian Nationalism is the biggest threat to America today. An existential threat 
to a government of the people, for the people, and by the people." 
I delivered that warning to a room full of reporters at the Religion News Association 
conference in Las Vegas on September 19, 2019. And 475 days later, on January 6, 2021, 
Christian Nationalists proved me right. They attacked our Capitol, our democracy, our 
nation, and you. Christian Nationalism was the banner under which the seemingly 
disparate groups united that day. This ideology provided the moral and mental 
permission structure Americans needed to assail American democracy. 
I have been warning about the rising threat of Christian Nationalism for years, and 
studying and fighting Christian Nationalism for a decade. I am a constitutional attorney 
and Director of Strategic Response at the Freedom From Religion Foundation, a position 
I held until today.1 I am the author of the book, The Founding Myth: Why Christian 
Nationalism is Un-American, which seeks to correct the misinformation and 
disinformation-the myths-that feed the Christian Nationalist identity. Pastor Greg 
Locke, a Christian Nationalist preacher with ties to the January 6th insurrection, filmed 
himself burning the book with a blowtorch. I'm a Senior Correspondent at Religion 
Dispatches and have authored numerous articles about Christian Nationalism for that 
outlet and have been a guest lecturer at several universities on this topic. I'm also 
co-editor of an academic text, Law and Religion: Cases and Materials (Foundation Press, 
1 On March 21, 2022, I joined Americans United for the Separation of Church and State as Vice President 
of Strategic Communications. I can be reached at Seidel@AU.org.  2022) 5th Edition, with Prof. Leslie Griffin; and authored another book, American 
Crusade: How the Supreme Court is Weaponizing Religious Freedom (Union Square & Co. 
Publishing, Sept. 2022). I was asked to submit this testimony because of my expertise 
and specifically because I helped conceive, organize, and write the comprehensive 
"Christian Nationalism at the January 6, 2021, Insurrection" report, published jointly by 
the Baptist Joint Committee for Religious Liberty, FFRF, and Christians Against 
Chritian Nationalism.2 
The Freedom From Religion Foundation is a national nonprofit based in Madison, 
Wisconsin. Since its formation in 1976, FFRF has fought to uphold the constitutional 
separation between state and church, and to educate the public about nonreligion. In 
recent years, FFRF's work has revealed an alarming rise in Christian Nationalism 
among state and federal officials, including in the judiciary, threatening the 
Constitution's guarantee of the fundamental right to a secular government. 
My testimony will lay out the undeniable evidence showing that Christian Nationalism 
played a central role in the insurrection, both in the lead-up to the insurrection 
(Appendix A) and on January 6 itself (Appendix B). These appendices are pulled 
directly from the "Christian Nationalism at the January 6, 2021, Insurrection" report 
mentioned earlier and have not been altered. I'll also explore some of the state and local 
officials who were in DC that day, examine their Christian Nationalist leanings, and 
discuss whether the fallout from the attack has chastened or emboldened them 
(Appendix C).3 This information is new and was not included in the report. 
Before those appendices, I'll first briefly define Christian Nationalism and the role it 
played, then examine some solutions. 
What is Christian Nationalism? 
Christian Nationalism is an identity built on the claim that America was founded as a 
Christian nation, that it was based on Judea-Christian principles, and, most importantly, 
that we have strayed from that foundation, from our godly roots. Christian Nationalism 
employs the language of return in an effort to claim to be the true heirs of the American 
experiment and, more importantly, the American Identity. In their retelling, Christian 
Nationalists are the true Americans, everyone else is an interloper. 
2 Available at FFRF.us/Jan6Report . 
3 In the wake of the attack, the Freedom From Religion Foundation compiled some of the Christian Nationalist 
leanings and tendencies of members of the U.S. Congress. Those are not included in this testimony but can be found at 
"FFRF: Shame on Christian Nationalist disruptors inside Congress," Press Release of January 28, 2021 at 
ffrf.us/disruptors .  Christian Nationalism is an entire identity based on disinformation. You've heard the 
disinformation before: 
"We're 'One Nation Under God!,"' "in God we trust," the Founding Fathers were all 
devout Christians who prayed during the Constitutional Convention, George 
Washington knelt in the snow at Valley Forge and prayed, that our laws and 
government are based on the Ten Commandments. 
None of that is true. And for a long time, Christian Nationalism was treated as a 
historical debate. Historians on one side, propagandists and politicians on the other. But 
on January 6th, Christian Nationalism ripped off its mask, showing that it is not a 
scholarly debate about how America was founded, but a violent, exclusionary movement 
bent on seizing power here and now. It is an attempt to redefine America according to 
Christian Nationalist disinformation and then reshape the law accordingly. 
Christian Nationalism was the central driving force on January 6. 
The attackers were not shy about declaring their motivations. They held Bibles aloft, 
prayed in the Senate, carried Christian flags, and openly confessed to their motivations 
on video. 
The many disparate identities and ideologies visible during the attack were united under 
a banner of Christian Nationalism, which created the permission structure necessary for 
Americans to attack their own government. The correspondent who shot the viral New 
Yorker video footage explained it like this: "The Christianity was one of the surprises to 
me in covering this stuff, and it has been hugely underestimated," he said. "That 
Christian Nationalism you talk about is the driving force and also the unifying force of 
these disparate players. It's really Christianity that ties it all together." See Appendix B. 
This is not the first time you are hearing this.4 On July 27, 2021, you heard testimony 
from four police officers who were on the front lines that day. They spoke of the violence 
inflicted upon them. The injuries they suffered. The number of times they were 
electrocuted. The fingers trying to gouge out their eyes and seize their guns. How they 
were dragged into the mob and beaten. The chemicals they were doused with. The 
surgeries they've endured. The many colleagues who have resigned. One of their fellow 
officers took his own life. They spoke about their anger with the cowardice and 
4 In addition to the testimony of the officers, the Secular Coalition for America and many of its member groups, 
including American Atheists, American Ethical Union, American Humanist Association, Black Nonbelievers, Camp 
Quest, Ex-Muslims of North America, Foundation Beyond Belief, Freedom From Religion Foundation, Freethought 
Society, Hispanic American Freethinkers, Military Association of Atheists and Freethinkers, Recovery From Religion, 
Secular Student Alliance, Secular Woman Society for Humanistic Judaism, and The Clergy Project asked this 
committee to "thoroughly investigate the extent and the impact of white Christian nationalism on those who stormed 
the Capitol on January 6."  indifference of the politicians who deny the seriousness of the assault, many of whose 
lives were saved by these very officers. They spoke about the odious racial slurs and 
racism they faced that day. 
And finally, one of them, Officer Hodges, the officer trapped and nearly crushed to death 
between the doors as the mob surged through the Capitol, spoke about the Christian 
Nationalist aspect of this assault, though not using the label itself: 
"It was clear the terrorists perceived themselves to be Christians. I saw the 
Christian flag directly to my front. Another read 'Jesus is my savior, Trump is my 
president.' Another, 'Jesus is King.'" 
That Christian flag was carried into battle against America-carried alongside the 
Confederate flag. It was carried against the police officers protecting the beating heart of 
our democracy. The terrorists didn't just parade the flag on the battle lines opposite 
Hodges, they carried that Christian flag onto the floor of the United States Senate. They 
attacked, they conquered, they paraded their flag on vanquished ground ... and then 
they said a prayer to Jesus in that Senate. 
"Thank you for allowing the United States of America to be reborn. Thank you for 
allowing us to get rid of the communists, the globalists, and the traitors within our 
government. We love you and we thank you. In Christ's holy name we pray. 
Amen.''5 
The idea that "the United States of America [should] be reborn" and reborn "in Christ's 
holy name," which is how the prayer concluded, is central to Christian Nationalism. We 
cannot understand what happened on January 6 without understanding Christian 
Nationalism. Nor can we hope to prevent a more serious repeat without confronting the 
danger of Christian Nationalism. 
Two solutions: Investigate and Recommit 
There are two solutions relevant to this committee's work. 
First, this committee must investigate the role Christian Nationalism played in 
fomenting and justifying this attack. The committee cannot ignore Christian 
Nationalism or treat it with timorous indifference simply because there are religious 
aspects to this identity. Of course, government officials must be careful to not trespass on 
true religious freedom. But we must be just as careful not to go too far in the other 
direction. We must not ignore genuine threats for fear of the false cries of persecution. An 
5 We know this because of the New Yorker footage Mogelson captured.  unwillingness to investigate and discuss Christian Nationalism as a driver of this attack, 
for whatever reason, only increases the likelihood of a repeat attack. Christian 
Nationalism is an existential threat to the American republic and if we do not confront 
that fact, we are unlikely to survive it. 
Second, the United States needs a national recommitment to the separation of 
state and church. This must begin with our elected leaders. The "wall of separation 
between church & state" is an American original. It is an American invention. The idea 
was born in the Enlightenment, but it was first implemented in the American 
Experiment. Until then, no other nation had sought to protect the ability of its citizens to 
think freely-by separating the government from religion and religion from the 
government. That separation is one of the truly unique and original aspects of the U.S. 
Constitution. 
America invented the separation of state and church. We should be proud of that fact. 
And we should recommit to that American ideal. 
Most of the other truly original elements of our Constitution sought to implement this 
separation-they are secular. For instance, "We the People." Those words are poetic, but 
also so much more. They declare that power comes from people, not gods. The source of 
rulers' authority comes not from above, but from the masses. That was revolutionary. (It 
was also aspirational for far too long.) 
Not only does our Constitution draw its power from the people, it's entirely godless-the 
first such document not to mention a god or deity. That was no accident, but a choice. Our 
Constitution was also the first to ban religious tests for public office: "no religious Test 
shall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office or public Trust under the United 
States." Article VI, clause 3. 
Why did the founders design a secular government for the American Experiment? For 
several reasons, including to guarantee religious freedom. The founders understood 
something that many Americans seem to have forgotten: There is no freedom of 
religion without a government that is free from religion. A secular government is 
required for true religious freedom to exist. 
The hatred and vitriol directed at this American original have done so much damage, not 
just to our government and the wall of separation, but also to true religious freedom. 
This national recommitment to our secular founding must include a reckoning with the 
disinformation that underlies the Christian Nationalist identity. This entire identity is  based on lies and myths, but is validated by modern representations of the myths that 
previous Christian nationalists have imposed on the country during crises. 
Christian Nationalists' erroneous beliefs are validated when they see "In God We Trust" 
on money or government buildings, or when, as schoolchildren, they are told that this is 
"one nation under God." I admire Rep. Liz Cheney for standing up to her party and 
seeking the truth about January 6, but she inadvertently adopted the language and 
mythos of the attackers at her opening statement to this committee on July 27, 2021 
when she repeated the Christian Nationalist war cry heard so often in the lead up to 
January 6, "One Nation, Under God." Congress opens with prayers that assure every 
Christian Nationalist that this is indeed his America. Ten Commandments monuments 
sit on government property, proclaiming "I AM THE LORD THY GOD." This body passed 
a law declaring a National Day of Prayer in defiance of the First Amendment, which says 
that "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion .... " 
The Christian Nationalist identity draws legitimacy from these artifacts left by the 
previous waves of Christian Nationalism this country has endured. These relics are 
really disfiguring scars, which ought remind us that Christian Nationalists have justified 
slavery, sanctified segregation, and, now, inspired an insurrection. Instead, the scars 
reinforce and validate Christian Nationalism, the very identity that attacked America on 
January 6. Until we erase those scars, we are giving aid and comfort to this traitor. 
We can beat Christian Nationalism. We can relegate it back to the fringe whence it came 
by exposing the disinformation that feeds the identity-I wrote The Founding Myth 
because I believe this so deeply. We won't convince all Christain Nationalists to change, 
but can alert most of the country to the danger and prevent our government from giving 
aid and succor to that un-American identity that assaulted our democracy. 
America is a shared idea. And Christian Nationalism refuses to share. It excludes 
non-Christians and the wrong kind of Christians. America will never be a Christian 
nation because the moment it becomes a Christian nation it will cease to be America. The 
two cannot peacefully coexist, one will triumph. This is the choice we face as a nation: 
Christian Nationalism or America? We cannot have both. 
Appendices attached: 
Appendix A: Events, People, and Networks Leading up to January 6 
Appendix B: Attack on the Capitol: Evidence of the Role of White 
Christian Nationalism 
Appendix C: Christian Nationalism and state and local officials  Appendix A 
EVENTS, PEOPLE, AND NETWORKS 
LEADING UP TO JANUARY 6 
Andrew L. Seidel 
Andrew L. Seidel is a constitutional attorney 
at the Freedom From Religion Foundation and 
author of The Founding Myth: Why Christian 
Nationalism Is Un-American (Sterling, 2019) and 
American Crusade: How the Supreme Court is 
Weaponizing Religious Freedom (Union Square & 
Co. Publishing, 2022). 
As the previous section shows, there is a substantial 
structural network in place that allows a few leaders at 
the top to push Christian nationalist disinformation and 
motivate a massive cadre of followers. 
Christian nationalists engaged this network to win the 
election. This was electoral politics, but it was sold to the 
masses as spiritual warfare.1 Almost immediately after the 
polls closed on Election Day, that machinery changed 
gears to stoke outrage and fear, exhort action, and work 
to give Trump a second term as president, no matter what 
the voters wanted. 
Paula White, still involved with the White House at the 
time, preached a sermon that went viral the day after 
the election because she spoke in tongues, rhythmically 
chanted seemingly disconnected phrases such as "I 
hear a sound of an abundance of rain," and preached of 
"angels dispatched from Africa right now. Africa right now. 
Africa right now. From Africa right now."2 
White preached all this "in the name of Jesus."3 White began hosting nightly prayers after this first prayer 
went viral. "White and fellow prayer warriors called 
on God to smite the president's enemies-his political 
opponents, anyone standing in the way of a second term, 
and anyone interfering with their vision of national and 
global dominion," explained one observer.4 On the second 
night of prayer, White preached that "God, we declare that 
you will keep the POTUS [sic] in his purpose and in his 
position," and, "We override the will of man for the will of 
God, right now." 
Others, such as Lance Wallnau, the father of American 
Dominionism, also framed the fight to overturn the 
election as a spiritual war. "Fighting with Trump is fighting 
with God," he declared.5 This warfare rhetoric was tinged 
with violence -stochastic terrorism -that increased 
leading up to January 6. Said Wallnau, "[W]e got to get 
some of that energy over there on our side. Because we 
need a couple of risk takers, and, you know, stir-things­
up evangelists and revivalists and prophets, because 
I'm telling you, these angels want something to do, and 
they're looking for some wildcards that are gonna go start 
something up."6  Against the backdrop of this rhetoric, a few events 
held in late 2020 became practice runs for the 
Capitol insurrection. 
November 14, 2020: 
The Million MAGA March 
One of the first post-election rallies in Washington, D.C., 
took place on November 14 in Freedom Plaza. It was 
typical of the pre-January 6 rallies, with many of the same 
players and speakers. It opened with a prayer infused 
with Christian nationalism that set the tone for everything 
that happened later.7 Ed Martin of Phyllis Schlafly's Eagles 
(the Eagle Forum Education & Legal Defense Fund) stood 
on stage, a "Jesus Matters" sign waving behind him, 
and prayed: 
Today, Lord, we gather in this hallowed place, we 
make it holy right now, in your name because we 
ask you, Lord, bless us in our work. Our nation, Lord, 
you gave it to us as a gift and you said you will have 
this nation, founded on Judeo-Christian principles 
and framed by a declaration and a constitution. You 
will not be led by CNN or cable news or fake news. 
[CHEERS] Lord, you said to us, "If you take this 
American nation" -Lord, you said to us -"and you 
serve me in righteousness, I will give you prosperity 
and joy, and I will give you for the world, a light, a 
beacon on a hill." And we say, "Thank you, Lord." And 
now Lord, we ask you for this today, to strengthen us 
like our founding fathers had, and like our president 
has. We ask you Lord, strengthen us in the fight 
because the powers of darkness are descending. 
They're saying, "concession, not Constitution." ... 
Finally, Lord, we ask you to expose the fraud. 
He ended the prayer with a convoluted invocation of 
the founding fathers, said "Amen," and then led a 
"U-S-A" chant. 
The Proud Boys attended the rally and knelt in prayer. The 
Proud Boys are a neo-fascist, white supremacist group 
whose founder, Gavin Mcinnes, "calls himself a 'Western 
chauvinist,' espousing the idea that Western civilization, 
which he associates with 'Judeo-Christian values,' is 
superior to all others."8 
There were many prayers that day9 and even into the 
night as violence broke out.10 
Representative-elect Marjorie Taylor Greene, R-Ga., who 
also promotes Christian nationalism, urged them to march 
to the Supreme Court, just as Trump urged them to march 
on the Capitol on January 6.11 They marched -they 
called it the "Million MAGA March" -down Pennsylvania 
Avenue to the Supreme Court for more speeches.12 
2 The Proud Boys kneel in prayer at the November 14 Million 
MAGA March. Carol Guzy/ NPR 
Million MAGA Marchers kneel in prayer on November 14. 
Alex Edelman/ Bloomberg/ Getty Images 
They marched with crosses,13 images of the Virgin 
Mary,14 "Jesus is my Savior, Trump is my President" 
flags,"15 "An Appeal to Heaven" flags,16 and a red flag that 
proclaimed "JESUS IS LORD."17 An RV bedecked in Trump 
paraphernalia declared, "PRAY FOR 45."18 At the Supreme 
Court, they erected a massive white Christian cross.19 
They carried yellow "Jesus Saves" signs20 and handwritten 
signs that said, "Jesus Saves, Trump Leads,"21 "Thank God 
for Trump,"22 "Jesus is King, Trump is president,"23 and 
"Ex: 28 vs. 11-19 [sic] It's been done. My feet are on the 
ROCK," which can be seen as someone preaches over 
a loudspeaker that "in the end, God has already won 
the victory."24 One woman in a QAnon T-shirt carried two 
signs "WE LOVE TRUMP" and "WE LOVE AMERICA, GOD 
& BABIES."25 Another protester held two signs on a pole; 
the top said, "Isaiah 45" (alluding to Trump as King Cyrus), 
and the bottom, "True Believer in Christ 4 Trump."26 He 
also carried the "Proud American Christian" flag featuring 
a red, white, and blue ichthys, which is an image of a 
fish used as a symbol of Christianity, sometimes called a 
"Jesus fish."27  One Trump supporter warned that day: "[C]areful what 
you wish for, because a wounded bear is a lot more 
dangerous than a bear that's not wounded." As night fell 
on November 14, violence erupted in D.C.28 
The violence we saw on November 14 was not the last 
time an event of this nature took such a turn -the mobs 
also turned violent at events on December 12 and January 
6. The threat of violence was clear in the weeks before 
the attack on our Capitol.29 The rallies, the marching to 
the Capitol, the violence: Dry runs like this are typical of 
terrorist attacks. 
This day became a practice run -seven weeks later, they 
marched to the Capitol. 
December 12, 2020: Jericho March's 
"Let the Church ROAR" Rally 
The battle of Jericho as portrayed in the Bible was less 
a battle and more a slaughter. In the story, God orders 
his followers to march around the city of Jericho while 
blowing shofars (ram's horns) and carrying the ark holding 
the Ten Commandments. God brings the walls down and 
orders his followers to violently sack the defenseless city, 
steal the silver and gold, and murder every living being, 
including animals.30 
After Trump lost the election, two federal workers sought 
to oppose Joe Biden's electoral victory by recreating this 
story. They christened their endeavor "Jericho March" 
and claimed that God had sent them visions, just like 
Joshua. One co-founder, Rob Weaver,31 explained the 
vision. "God told me to let the church roar," he said. 
And, as God's army marched around Jericho, God now 
wanted Americans to march around the "spiritual walls 
of this country." By which Weaver meant the Capitol, 
the Supreme Court, the Department of Justice, and 
the capitals of the swing states -all choke points for 
The crowd at Jericho March's Let the Church ROAR event on 
December 12 waves the "An Appeal to Heaven" flag and yellow 
"Jesus Saves" signs amid American flags and "Stop the 
Steal" signs. Crossroads with Joshua Philipp/ You Tube 
3 certifying and ensuring the results of the election.32 
"God is the head of this country .... This country stands 
on the shoulders of Jesus; He's the real government," 
said Weaver in typical Christian nationalist terms. Weaver 
noted that his Jesus is militant and manly: "I remember 
my Jesus turning over tables in the literal temple in 
Jerusalem .... They [the Supreme Court, Congress, etc.] 
need to do the right thing. They need to fix this ... 
The church is awake, and we're getting louder," 
Weaver added.33 
The other Jericho March co-founder, Arina Grossu,34 
said that the "Jericho March is about people coming 
and praying in their own way, in diverse ways. Judeo­
Christians coming together and expressing their plea 
to God for truth to come out, because we know this is a 
battle not just on a temporal level."35 
Even after the insurrection on January 6, Christian 
nationalists stood by this message. 36 
Jericho March organized several events leading up to 
January 6. Throughout December, it had people marching 
around state capitols blowing shofars. On December 
12, less than four weeks before the insurrection, Jericho 
March organized a "prayer rally" on the National Mall. 
They named the event "Let the Church ROAR."37 
Partnering with Jericho March on "Let the Church ROAR" 
were Stop the Steal (Ali Alexander's organization, which 
he said was inspired by Roger Stone) and Phyllis Schlafly's 
Eagles (Ed Martin's group). In the press release for the 
event, Weaver, Grossu, Alexander, and Martin praised 
God and preached Christian nationalism. Martin said, "Our 
founder, the late Phyllis Schlafly, taught us to build bridges 
of faith, policy, and politics to keep America great and to 
always fight for God, country, and the family. Our groups 
are in this fight to save the Republic from all the forces 
that seek to destroy it and to restore America to the vision 
of our Founding Fathers."38 
One video ad for the march made the violent undertones 
clear. It featured crowds chanting "fight for Trump" and 
multiple speakers talking about losing the nation, losing 
freedom, the last stand, and "fighting" to prevent that: 
"we will stand up and fight! ... we're going to protect this 
president ... this is our fight, this is for our freedom."39 
The ad drew a clear line between Jericho March's Let 
the Church ROAR event on December 12 and the Million 
MAGA March on November 14, showing those crowds and 
saying it was the "biggest rally."40 
A three-minute trailer for the event made the Christian 
nationalism plain.41 It begins by recapping the presidential 
election and then says that our country is "at a 
crossroads. One path leads to a return to our founding 
Judeo-Christian principles: love of God, life, liberty, 
justice, law, and order. The other path leads to socialism,  globalism, destruction -a dismantling of our great nation 
as we know it. But the voices of patriots and people of 
faith will not be silenced. America is a gift entrusted to 
us by our Creator .... Now it is our moment to save our 
republic and protect our freedoms from the corrupt and 
destructive forces at work." The ad then alludes to the 
biblical violence: "Jericho was a city of false gods and 
corruption. On God's command, Joshua and the army of 
Israel marched around the city seven times and let out 
a loud shout, and God brought down the walls of the 
city and exposed the darkness. Our Jericho March was 
born of a vision from God." It then calls for that same 
kind of action: "We are calling on all American patriots 
and people of faith to join us on our Jericho Marches .... 
These marches will culminate on December 12 with a 
'Let The Church ROAR' national march on Washington, 
D.C. ... This is our battle of Jericho for people of faith and 
patriots from all across America .... We believe in a great 
and powerful God who can move mountains, expose 
corruption, and restore justice. We believe in a God of 
miracles .... Share. March. Pray. Donate. Hold the line. And 
expect a miracle." 
Jericho March accustomed people to marching on the 
halls of power, just as they did on November 14 and as 
they would on January 6. In another promotional video 
for "Let the Church ROAR," Grossu explained, "For 
the march, we are going to simultaneously go around 
the U.S. Capitol, the Supreme Court, and Department 
of Justice, after we do that ... we will gather onto the 
National Mall to hear some wonderful talks and prayers 
by faith leaders, political leaders, and also be led in praise 
and worship .... "42 The biblical allusion made violence 
the implicit goal of the march. In the Bible, Joshua's 
army marched around Jericho for several days; the 
insurrectionists marched in multiple locations across the 
span of several weeks. Both culminated in violence. 
"Let the Church ROAR" was held on the National Mall a 
few blocks from the Capitol and was basically another dry 
run for January 6.43 The crowd waved signs and flags that 
were seen at the Million MAGA March on November 14 
and everywhere on January 6, including the "An Appeal 
to Heaven" flag44 and the yellow "Jesus Saves" sign.45 The 
crowd chanted "U-S-A." Nearly every speaker invoked 
the genocide at Jericho in adoring terms or prayed to 
Jesus. "One nation under God," was perhaps the most 
common refrain. One sang "Ave Maria."46 Another sang 
"God Bless America." They played Christian rock tunes, 
like "Chain breaker," in between the various speakers (and 
had a worship concert before the rally began).47 At the 
December 12 "Let the Church ROAR" event hosted by the 
Jericho March, the crowd waved yellow "Jesus Saves" 
signs as a band led a singalong of the Battle Hymn of the 
Republic while the livestream displayed the lyrics for all 
to join; on January 6, the attackers would sing the battle 
hymn in the Rotunda of the Capitol.48 
4 Eric Metaxas emceed the "Let the Church ROAR" event. 
An evangelical radio host and writer, Metaxas personally 
turned to violence in August 2020 when he punched an 
aggressive protester after leaving the White House, which 
Metaxas admitted to journalists.49 
As at the biblical Jericho, it began with shofars. First, two 
shofars were blown at once on stage. Next, a shofar was 
blown that was "made for Donald Trump" and featured 
the flags of the United States and Israel painted on the 
horn alongside the presidential seal.50 Then a woman in a 
Women for Trump shirt sang "the national anthem [which] 
rises as a prayer to our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, 
Yeshua ha Mashiach [Jesus the Messiah]."51 
After the prayer/anthem and while the crowd chanted 
"U-S-A," Metaxas took the stage.52 A portrait of Mary as 
the Virgin of Guadalupe blessing Pope John Paul II was 
on stage, too, which served as a prop for an exorcism 
later in the day.53 Metaxas began: 
Is there anything that could be more important than 
the USA? His name is "Yeshua ha Mashiach" [Jesus 
the Messiah]. Praise the Lord. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. 
Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. "Hallelujah" is 
American for "praise the Lord."54 
Metaxas was speaking the language of Christian 
nationalism. "We are here because we love the God of 
the Bible ... We are here today to cry out to the God of 
heaven to ask him to have mercy on the greatest nation in 
the history of the world," he added. "We are what God is 
doing in the United States today ... and today, we're going 
to see heaven move. Heaven is going to move. Thank 
you, Jesus. Thank you, Jesus." 
The Rev. Kevin Jessip made the Christian nationalism 
explicit. "Some have said this is not a Christian nation. 
I'm telling you this is a Judeo-Christian nation .... Today, I 
call this the warrior mandate, a battle cry, a call to arms." 
And then, almost as an afterthought, he qualified the 
belligerence with "in the spiritual realm."55 He explained 
that the "battle cry" is a "mobilization of God's men made 
holy by the blood of Jesus Christ and empowered by 
the gift of the baptism of the Holy Spirit. This battle cry 
is a Christian call to all Christian men ... as we prepare 
for a strategic gathering of men in this hour to dispel the 
Kingdom of Darkness." This was a sermon of Christian 
conquest framed with military terminology: warrior, battle 
cry, mobilization, secret weapon, enlistment, strategic, 
prisoners of war, glory, deployed in hostile territory under 
enemy occupation, commissioned as special forces, 
stationed, final mission to ending this high treason, 
search and rescue team. And if the allusions weren't clear 
enough, Jessip explained, "We are, without question, men 
born for war. We are fully equipped as warriors, with battle 
armor directed and suited for our assignment ... to restore 
the Eden Mandate of occupation and expansion of the  Rev. Kevin Jessip delivers a "battle cry," a "call to arms," at the 
Jericho March's Let the Church ROAR event on December 12. 
Jericho March/ Video Squirrel 
Glory of God, filling the earth." He wanted an "Army of the 
Lord" and preached unadulterated Christian nationalism 
and a clear call to arms. Jessip himself had organized 
"The Return: National and Global Day of Prayer and 
Repentance" on September 26, in Washington, D.C., and 
he viewed the Jericho March event as the "culmination" 
of that work. 
Noted anti-Muslim bigot and conspiracy theorist Frank 
Gaffney announced a new political party. "The principal 
purpose of this" new party, said Gaffney, "is to get back to 
the founding principles of this nation. The belief that we 
are 'one nation, under God!"'56 
Former U.S. Rep. Michele Bachmann, R-Minn., sent in a 
video prayer that began by greeting all of those "who 
love the Lord" and "who love this country" and came 
"to Washington, D.C., in obedience to the Lord to do the 
Jericho March." She declared that they were there to turn 
"faith to action" and to "go on offense for our nation, on 
the Jericho March," which she said was a duty to God and 
which would result in a miracle.57 Mike Lindell, Founder 
and CEO of My Pillow, Inc., then came on and told election 
lies. Lance Wallnau spoke about the "spiritual warfare 
presidency" and how people were going to "come out 
of the shadows" and engage and fight for Trump. He 
repeated election lies and called for a "Christian populist 
uprising" to "see America restored" and another "great 
awakening."58 Throughout the event, the speakers cross­
promoted Lindell's pillows, including Metaxas giving out 
coupon codes. 
Conspiracy theorist and radio host Alex Jones began, 
"Praise God, America is awakening, humanity is 
awakening, and Jesus Christ is king." He found occasion 
to mention that George Washington "didn't want to 
be king" and that he "was a Christian." Jones invoked 
Jesus often, including that "Christ's crucifixion was not 
our defeat, it was our greatest victory," and ended his 
shouting, "1776 is God's number of victory over the 
satanic 1984. God bless you all and I salute you. Thank 
you, Jesus."59 
5 Another speaker at the event was Michael Flynn, the 
former general who served as national security adviser 
during the Trump administration before resigning after it 
came to light that he misled others about conversations 
he had with a Russian diplomat.6° Flynn's Jericho March 
speech recast the biblical story of slaughter into a 
peaceful protest: "[T]hey didn't want to assault Jericho 
... they wanted to march in peace around there."61 This is 
simply not reflected in any of the stories, which are about 
conquest, but it shows the strategy of claiming peace 
when the goal is violence, which was the refrain after 
January 6. 
Flynn then said the Lord's Prayer. All morning, the 
speakers had teased an appearance by Trump himself. 
Instead, President Donald Trump blessed the crowd with 
a flyover in Marine One in the middle of Flynn's speech. 
Flynn then invoked the Jericho genocide again in a rather 
sloppy metaphor that the crowd cheered: 
I'm going to use a metaphor because Jericho we're 
inside the walls of the deep state. Okay? And there 
is -there is evil and there's corruption ... and 
there's light and truth. We're going to get to the light 
and we're going to get to the truth ... Inside of this 
barricade, we're going to knock those walls down. 
Okay? We're going to knock those walls down. So be 
proud. Be proud as Christians. Be proud as patriots. 
And what we ... do is we give witness today to our 
faith in God, our love of country, the United States of 
America, for our Constitution, and for our President 
Donald J. Trump. God bless America.62 
Ali Alexander, who founded Stop the Steal, took the 
stage.63 He paraphrased the Bible when he talked about 
shutting everything down and "occupy[ing] D.C. full of 
patriots here, won't we? We can do all things through 
Christ who strengthens us." He told the crowd, "We 
just need to find us one brave senator" to object to 
the election or they would "burn the Republican Party 
down."64 He concluded, "We have God's favor ... To God 
be the glory. For God and country." 
Three days later, Alexander told the media at a press 
conference, "Our hope is in Christ. Our hope is in 
God. And our hope is in the founding documents, the 
Constitution that we must continue to exhaust."65 
Other speakers that day represented a variety of Christian 
denominations. Father Greg Bramlage conducted an 
exorcism on stage in front of the portrait of Mary as 
the Virgin of Guadalupe blessing Pope John Paul II. He 
claimed to "specialize in exorcism and deliverance," 
and he told the crowd that "we are in a spiritual battle, 
this cannot be solved by human means." He prayed, "I 
ask that no demonic bondage, door, entity, portal, astral 
projection, or disembodied spirit may enter this space 
of 5,000 miles in all directions. I ask that any demons  within this vicinity or any that should try to enter here be 
rendered deaf, dumb, and blind. That you, Lord Jesus, 
would bind them, rebuke them, and disable them."66 
Archbishop Carlo Maria Vigano preached that fighting for 
Trump was a holy crusade with "the lies and deceptions 
of the children of darkness" on one side and, on the other, 
"the silent army of the children of Light, the humble ranks 
who overthrow evil by invoking God, the praying army 
that walks around the walls of lies and betrayal in order 
to bring them down." He added, "We fight the battles of 
the Lord with faith and courage, carrying the Ark of the 
Covenant in our hearts, remaining faithful to the teachings 
of the Gospel of Our Lord!" After preaching about the 
"deep state" and converting every public official, Vigano 
invoked Christian nationalism: "Be proud, as Christians 
and as patriots, to be able to give witness today to 
your faith in God and your love for the United States of 
America, for its Constitution, and for its president, Donald 
J. Trump." An Italian citizen, Vigano repeatedly talked of 
"our nation" and "our beloved nation," and ended with 
a prayer that concluded, " ... granting victory to those 
who served under thy holy banner, Amen. God bless our 
president. God bless the United States of America. One 
nation under God."67 
Jill Noble is a Jericho March coordinator,68 and she hit 
the podium repeatedly with a gavel, which she called a 
hammer, and somehow this was related to a conspiracy 
theory about voting machines. As she hammered, the 
crowd chanted, "No king but Jesus." She thanked God for 
not leaving them defenseless but giving them "weapons of 
warfare" to fight corruption and finished, "We say, let this 
be one nation under God! In Jesus' name, Amen."69 
Bishop Joseph Strickland, the Catholic bishop of Tyler, 
Texas, delivered a Christian nationalist prayer in a video 
message.7° "We come before you praying for our nation," 
said Strickland in his church in front of a stained-glass 
cross, "a nation that proudly proclaims that we are 'One 
Nation Under God.' ... We pray that truly, we can embrace 
the words, 'God bless America,' more profoundly and 
more deeply than ever. Amen." 
Frank Pavone, who runs Priests for Life, delivered a prayer 
that sounded like a stump speech. In front of a portrait of 
Trump and an American flag that said, "One Nation Under 
God," Pavone prayed, "We thank you for the United States 
of America which you have preserved through many trials 
and have blessed with the greatest president we've had, 
Donald J. Trump."71 He then repeated election lies. 
Sister Deirdre Byrne, in her nun's habit as she was for 
her speech at the 2020 Republican National Convention, 
thanked people for coming to the Jericho March to "help 
pray to end Satan's lies that have covered our nation."72 
She asserted that the "rosary is a weapon." 
6 At the Let the Church ROAR event, Father Greg Bramlage 
performs the exorcism behind a framed painting of the Virgin 
Mary as the crowd holds up their hands in reverence and 
waves the Christian flag and Trump flags. 
Crossroads with Joshua Philipp/ You Tube 
Bishop Leon Benjamin, the senior pastor and bishop of 
New Life Harvest Church in Richmond, Virginia, said, 
"American patriots, are you ready? We are here in the 
mighty name of Jesus today to declare that every Jericho 
wall must come down! ... President Donald Trump has 
faith in America. He has faith in God. He has faith in 
Jesus. There are walls that must come down ... A fresh 
anointing is about to come on this nation ... Jesus is the 
lion of the Tribe of Judah and he will rule in America! The 
Jericho walls -we know the history, Joshua is told to do 
something crazy, but we know when God tells us to do 
something crazy it means it's going to work ... You came 
to bring these Jericho walls down in Washington, D.C. ... 
the walls must come down!"73 He then again recounted 
the story of Jericho, with the Levites consecrating 
America in his version, and he used warfare language: 
"The demons we kill now, our children will not have to 
fight these devils. These are our devils, and we will kill 
them now. They will not fight our children. The Jericho 
walls must come down!" And he blew a shofar to bring 
down the walls. 
Metaxas announced there would be a "prophetic 
declaration" and introduced "Curt Landry, a prophet 
of God."74 Landry, an anti-vaccine, right-wing minister, 
called this "spiritual warfare" and talked about the 
Pilgrims landing 400 years ago "this day." He went into a 
cinematic vision of the Ten Commandments and warfare: 
"a traditional vision, a prophetic vision of your traditional 
Moses, Charlton Heston, standing up on the rock." 
The head of the "Black Robed Regiment," the Rev. Bill 
Cook, wore an Oath Keepers shirt and a MAGA hat.75 He 
used mythologized American history to shame pastors 
into militant action. He told of a pastor in the stories of 
Paul Revere and the battles of Lexington and Concord, 
and he said that the pastor even trained the militia. "Boy 
that's radical," he said. "Where are our pastors today in 
this battle? ... Why are pastors running today? Why are 
they not at the forefront of this battle?"  ~ i}8? 
I'!:,\\/ 
The Rev. Bill Cook wears a MAGA hat and Oath Keepers T-shirt 
with his "Prayer Rally" ID badge, and he asks the pastors in 
the crowd to raise their hands at the Jericho March's Let the 
Church ROAR event. Jericho March/ Video Squirrel 
Stewart Rhodes, founder of the far-right anti-government 
militia group known as Oath Keepers,76 told the crowd 
about the Insurrection Act and that "you can be called up 
as the militia to support and defend the Constitution ... 
[W]e're going to have to do it ourselves later, in a much 
more desperate, much more bloody war. Let's get it on 
now -while he is still the commander-in-chief." To which 
Metaxas replied, "Oh, God bless you. This guy's keepin' it 
real, folks."77 
That night, the Proud Boys roamed the streets of D.C., 
starting fights, vandalizing Black churches and burning a 
Black Lives Matter banner.78 The next day, Trump said to 
aides, "seems like quite a few crazies," an understatement 
given the arson, stabbings, and 30-plus arrests. This 
statement shows that Trump fully understood the violent 
power of this mob.79 
To be fair, Trump may not have only been talking 
about the participants in the Jericho March. There was 
another Trump rally on December 12 and, as this report 
shows, Christian nationalism was the common thread 
tying together the disparate identities -from white 
supremacists to QAnon conspiracists to Proud Boys. 
December 12, 2020: 
Women for America First 
While Jericho March, Stop the Steal, and Schlafly's Eagles 
set up on the National Mall just down the street from the 
U.S. Capitol, Women for America First ended a nationwide 
bus tour (which began after the November 14 march80) 
with a rally at Freedom Plaza near the White House.81 
Women for America First has ties to Stop the Steal, and 
many of the same speakers and preachers appeared at 
both rallies. 
Televangelist Mark Burns opened the rally by preaching 
a slapdash string of Christian nationalist talking points, 
7 with special attention to "under God" in the Pledge of 
Allegiance: "I am going to pray because we elected 
Donald Trump, we elected a man who believes in the 
name of Jesus Christ. And they are trying to take God out 
of everything, you know they are trying to take God out of 
our Pledge of Allegiance. They are trying to take God out 
of our Pledge of Allegiance." He then recited the pledge, 
along with the crowd, which screamed the addition: 
"under God!" After whipping up the crowd, Burns turned 
militant, saying, "I've got patriots here who are ready for a 
fight on every race-baiting, dividing, God-hating liberal in 
America, that you will not take away the beautiful country 
we call the United States of America ... you will not take 
God out of our nation. You will not take our faith, you will 
not take our liberty. Give me liberty or give me death!" 
After invoking the Constitution, he prayed, "Father God 
-in the name of Jesus, our savior, our king -he died 
on the cross that we might have a relationship with the 
Father in Heaven -wrap your arms around Donald J. 
Trump and give him the strength to keep on fighting, to 
never back down, and never become quiet, because we 
believe that God is on our side." He ended with, "God 
bless you, America, God bless the United States," and 
then led a chant of "Donald Trump."82 
Mike Lindell said, "this is the time we could bring our 
great country back to one nation under God -and that 
God is Jesus."83 
Jennifer Lawrence of We Build the Wall said, "We answer 
to God, not government. And God is gonna tell us who is 
going to be the president. And God is gonna tell us how 
this country is going to go."84 
Anna Khait, a former contestant on the TV show 
"Survivor" who was "born again" and now has a YouTube 
channel to "reach the lost," delivered a sermon in which 
she claimed to have had visions and that Trump "was 
prophesied to have two terms, in Jesus' name ... we thank 
you for two awesome terms." She also had "a message 
... for the devil. And his minions. And all the wizards and 
witches that are watching right now" that "Trump is our 
anointed one to bring justice back into this country. We're 
going to lift the name above every name, in Jesus' name." 
She then tried to get the crowd to chant "Jesus" with her, 
but they couldn't get the rhythm. She wanted the chant 
because it "was a vision [she] had a few weeks ago" but 
also made the crowd "repent for all of the blood sacrifice 
that has been poured."85 
The lead pastor at HIS Church in Kentucky, Brian Gibson, 
ended that rally. Gibson is affiliated in some manner 
with Church United, a national network of hundreds 
of pastors.86 He preached about Jesus being a lamb 
and a lion, that "he died on the cross for you," and then 
seamlessly transitioned into Christian nationalism: "I'm 
looking at some lion-like patriots. I'm looking at some 
liberty-loving patriots. I'm looking at some lion-like Bible  believers ... We're not gonna give this land to Marxism 
... to communism ... to the devil ... This was founded in 
Christian roots, and my children are gonna be raised in a 
Christian nation. Amen?" He talked about the founders, 
but he claimed that the real founders were the black­
robed preachers and that "we need a brand new group 
of black-robed preachers in America ... that'll lead the 
Christian army to a rightful birthright in this country ... 
America did not birth the church, but the church 
birthed America."87 
Other groups and rallies 
Plenty of other groups were active before January 6 -
some small, some big. The "Let the Church ROAR"' rally 
included a brief plug from Kimberly Fletcher of Moms 
For America, who asked people to come back the next 
day (December 13) for the Keep Christmas Rally. "If you 
want them to stop canceling Christmas ... then come 
tomorrow because we're going to have a Keep Christmas 
Rally with Mike Lindell."88 That rally was in the same vein 
as these other rallies, with phrases such as "America is 
still a Christian nation ... there are more of us than them 
... America is still a Christian nation."89 Another speaker 
preached, "the U.S. Constitution was founded upon ... 
the Bible, Judeo-Christian principles."90 In a bedazzled 
American flag hat, Grossu, the co-founder of Jericho 
March, spoke about her visions and "righteous anger," but 
also "our Christian history, Judeo-Christian history."91 
Other big pieces were moving behind the scenes, too. 
The Council for National Policy, the networking outfit 
identified earlier, sent the letter mentioned in the previous 
section falsely declaring "Trump is the lawful winner of the 
presidential election."92 
The members of Congress who promised to object to the 
results of the free and fair election were nearly all people 
who promote Christian nationalist ideologies, as were 
those members who eventually did object.93 This had an 
impact on the leaders and organizers of these marches 
and rallies. Any who doubt the impact of Senators Josh 
Hawley and Ted Cruz and the other objecting lawmakers 
to the results of a free and fair election need only listen 
to the Jericho March organizers, who announced their 
January 5-6 plans "after Hawley announced he would 
object to the results of several states being certified, 
joining several U.S. representatives who have said they 
will do the same."94 
January 5, 2021: Marches 
and rallies everywhere 
Jericho March hosted a week of events leading up to 
the attack that included candlelight prayer vigils at the 
National Christmas Tree, Vice President Michael Pence's 
8 home at the Naval Observatory, and the Russell Senate 
Office Building. Jericho March called for self-guided 
marches around the Capitol and Supreme Court on 
January 2-4. Then, on January 5 and 6, it got serious, with 
guided marches, speeches, and more.95 The Eric Metaxas 
Show, on the day before the assault, aired an episode 
in which the host and guest argued that "Christian 
nationalism is a good thing."96 
January 5 kicked off with a "Supreme Court Blessing." As 
the crowd arrived, Religion News Service's Jack Jenkins 
reported that organizers used the sound system to 
"blast an overtly Christian nationalist anthem. 'God bless 
America again, We need the blood of Jesus to wash away 
our sins ... "'97 
At the Capitol across from the Supreme Court, they held 
"An Appeal to Heaven" flags and danced to "God's Not 
Dead," a song featured in the film of the same name that 
was intimately tied up with Alliance Defending Freedom 
(ADF), a Christian nationalist legal organization.98 As in 
the biblical story of Jericho, one group marched around 
the Capitol, but instead of the Ark of the Covenant, they 
carried a two-foot tall cutout of Trump's head at the 
forefront along with a handwritten sign: "Thank you Lord, 
Donald v. Goliath." They sang "How Great is Our God" as 
their American, blue line, Gadsden ("Don't Tread on Me"), 
and Trump flags waved amid the red MAGA hats.99 
Back at the Supreme Court, marchers formed prayer 
circles talking about how they were cheated, asking God 
to intervene, and said "This is not about fighting, this is 
about supporting 'One [Nation] Under God."'100 Jenkins 
reported on the rhetoric that day: 
"This is our moment, Lord, this is our moment to take 
our country back," declared one woman standing in 
a prayer circle near the U.S. Supreme Court. "This is 
our moment to fight ... with you as our weapon. You 
are our fighter." A few minutes later, someone could 
be heard chanting a few feet away: "We fight for God, 
and God fights for us!"101 
They blew their shofars and marched. Two people wore 
white and gold robes featuring Mary as the Virgin of 
Guadalupe, carried a fat Bible, blew smoke out of their 
shofar, and one wore a tricorn hat with gold trim, invoking 
the founders.102 Other hornblowers draped themselves in 
American flags.103 
They marched around the Supreme Court to the "One 
Nation Under God Prayer Rally," which was organized 
by a coalition that included Jericho March and Stop the 
Steal, among others.104 Roger Stone, a former adviser to 
Trump's campaign who Trump later pardoned after his 
conviction for witness tampering and lying to Congress, 
was escorted to that rally by a group of Oath Keepers 
in tactical gear.105 Stone mounted the small stage and  led the crowd in a chant of "bullshit," then apologized 
to "his evangelical friends." Someone in the audience 
responded, "We feel it, too." Stone preached the spiritual 
warfare of Christian nationalism, "Let's be clear, this ... is 
a fight for the future of Western Civilization as we know 
it. It's a fight between Dark and Light. It's a fight between 
the Godly and the Godless. It's a fight between Good and 
Evil." Stone said, "We're here to express our God-given 
First Amendment rights!" and then repeated election 
lies. After hammering those lies over and over, Stone, 
who found Jesus while awaiting sentencing for his felony 
convictions and preached about his conversion at Global 
Vision Bible Church four months earlier,106 said, "I honestly 
believe that God has put us here in this place at this time 
for a great purpose. I believe my life was spared for some 
greater purpose, and when the Lord is ready to tell me 
what it is he wants me to do I can tell you I'm prepared to 
do it, but I will never stop fighting for this nation." Stone 
promised to march "shoulder-to-shoulder" with the mob. 
He concluded, "So, go with God. Remember this: we 
battle for the Lord and we dare not fail. If we stay true, 
victory will be ours." 
The crowd cheered Stone off stage to chants of "U-S-A! 
U-S-A!" and a man in the audience in a MAGA hat can be 
seen and heard screaming, "Let's build a gallows!"107 
They did. 
Within a few months of the attack, at least ten members 
of the Oath Keepers militia group would be charged in 
connection with the insurrection and a conspiracy,108 
including one from Stone's personal security detail.109 
The Christian nationalism seemed to ratchet up as the 
day wore on. There were more rallies that afternoon and 
night, including the "Rally for Revival" at Freedom Plaza.110 
"This is a Christian nation," shouted preacher Brian 
Gibson, adding, "The church of the Lord Jesus Christ 
started America ... We're going to take our nation back!"111 
TRUMP SUPPORTERS RALLY IN FREEDOM PLAZA 
Pastor Brian Gibson leads new members of the "Black 
Robed Regiment" in taking their oath at the January 5 "Rally 
for Revival." Global TV Online/ You Tube 
9 Photo of Pastor Brian Gibson and Jacob Chansley, aka the 
"QAnon Shaman," that surfaced after the insurrection. 
E (@ladygeewiz5) / Twitter 
Gibson, who emceed parts of the rally, also brought up a 
group of preachers on stage: the Black Robed Regiment. 
"If Jesus is our King, then our nation is our responsibility." 
Gibson had the men swear an oath:112 
Today, I take an oath to follow Jesus Christ of 
Nazareth, to serve the kingdom of God's, to be 
committed to the Scriptures, to live a holy lifestyle, 
and to stand for the church. The church is the pillar 
and the ground of the truth. And if Jesus is my king, 
then my nation is my responsibility. So I receive my 
responsibility. And I will never wear a yellow robe. I 
will only wear the black robe. 
And I will stand for liberty. I will stand for freedom. I 
will stand for America. I swear before you and I swear 
before these people, that I will protect this nation and 
the Constitution as a leader of the people of God's. 
And now as a minister, I lead sheep, I feed sheep, and 
I kill wolves. 
Photos later surfaced of this same preacher posing 
with Jacob Chansley as Chansley wore face paint, fur, 
and horns.113 
Pastor Ken Peters, who runs The Church at Planned 
Parenthood and the Patriot Church, preached a similar 
message in Freedom Plaza:114 
We are not just in a culture war, we are in a kingdom 
war. This is the Kingdom of Darkness versus the 
Kingdom of Light ... And Satan ... wants nothing less 
than destroying this country entirely because we 
are a beacon of the Gospel ... It is important that in  this moment we stand up like never before ... If we 
don't hold up the shield of faith, Satan will take over 
this land. But I see a bunch of people here that will 
say, "No, no." We are not going to allow the enemy 
to destroy this beautiful and great land that our 
forefathers gave to us. We will rise up in this time and 
say like Paul Revere, "The leftists are coming!" ... God 
bless you and God bless America.115 
The next day, the Patriot Church leader tweeted: "Patriots 
are now storming the capital [sic] in front of us."116 
The election was "stolen" in "the most egregious fraud," 
according to Pastor Che Ahn, who said at this same rally, 
"[W]e're going to throw Jezebel out and Jehu's gonna 
rise up, and we're gonna rule and reign through President 
Trump and under the lordship of Jesus Christ."117 
Christie Hutcherson of Women Fighting for America 
preached, "We serve a mighty, powerful God. He wants 
everybody to know it's by His might, by His hand, that 
Donald J. Trump will serve four more years."118 
At the January 5 "Rally for Revival," a "Jesus Saves" sign 
is held behind conspiracy theorist Alex Jones as he asks 
the crowd, "[l]f God be with us, who can stand against us?" 
Bloomberg Ouicktake: Now/ YouTube 
Alex Jones, with a yellow "Jesus Saves" sign waving 
behind him, ranted on stage, " ... [T]here is a God that 
inspired our republic and there is a God in the control of 
the affairs of humans and that God will see us through 
if we are loyal ... In the end, God will fulfill his destiny 
and will reward the righteous." He called Biden a "slave 
of Satan" and preached, "We renounce Satan!" Jones' 
rant might surprise those who divorce religion and 
conspiracy theories, but it was highly religious and full 
of Christian nationalist ideology. He continued, "[M]ore 
importantly, we embrace God ... and just as we see in the 
Bible ... God raises up men who are real ... real men like 
President Trump." Jones screamed about God, God's plan, connecting with God, holding Trump up and thanking God 
for trying to send us a "deliverer."119 He told people they're 
never alone as long as they had faith in his God and to 
end, shrieking "the spirit of God is with us! ... And if God 
be with us, who can stand against us? ... I trust in the plan 
of God. I trust in Jesus Christ." He ended as one ends 
prayers: "Amen." 
Pastor Mark Burns repackaged his December 12 sermon. 
He began by asking the crowd outside, "Don't I got some 
God-fearing, 1776, Trump-loving patriots in the building 
tonight?" and led a chant of "U-S-A." He preached about 
the war between good and evil, the biblical book of 
Revelation, and summed it up by saying, "Jesus wins!"120 
Pastor Greg Locke, who hosted Roger Stone at his 
Tennessee church four months earlier, preached to 
"Jesus-loving patriots." Locke was filling in and praying 
for the Proud Boys leader Enrique Tarrio. Locke preached 
unadulterated Christian nationalism ideas in front of a 
"Jesus Saves" sign:121 
I wonder how many Jesus-loving patriots we got 
out there tonight? I'm here to tell you that President 
Andrew Jackson, on his deathbed, he made a 
marvelous declaration. He turned and looked at a 
Bible. He pointed at a copy of the word of God just 
before he closed his eyes in death and he said -and 
I quote, "That book, sir, is the rock upon which the 
republic rests." 
After sharing that Christian nationalist myth,122 Locke 
continued with one of the clearest and most violent 
prayers of the day: 
And ladies and gentlemen, we are here tonight 
not just because we have rights given to us by a 
constitution, but we have rights given to us by a holy 
Bible and God Almighty himself. And no matter what 
happens, no matter what they say, no matter what 
BLM does, no matter what Antifa does ... 
Jesus Christ is still king of kings, he is still Lord of 
Lords, he is still the Alpha and the Omega. He's 
the beginning, he is the end, and he's everything 
in between, and my Bible says that he is the way, 
he is the truth and the life ... God is on our side. 
America is the last bastion of Christian freedom. It's 
the last bastion of capitalism ... I declare unto you 
that President Donald Trump is gonna stay for four 
more years in the White House ... We're a mighty 
army. They've gotta listen. They can't ignore us. Our 
churches have been backed into a corner ... 
We pray for Enrique [Tarrio], and Lord, we pray for his 
organization [the Proud Boys]. And Lord, they may get 
a bum rap on the news media, but we just thank God 
that we can lock shields, and we can come shoulder­
to-shoulder with people that still stand up for this  nation, and still love the rights and the freedoms that 
we have cause Lord, we've gotta recognize the fact 
if we don't have convictions worth dying for, we don't 
even know what living really is. So, God, help us to 
live, help us to fight, and if need be, lay down our life 
for this nation, and we thank you for those that have 
gone before us and done just that. 
The violent Christian nationalism is explicit, and that was 
the message throughout all of these rallies, held from 
December 2020 until the attack on January 6, 2021. They 
were remarkably consistent, preaching that "God is on 
your side" and creating a divine justification to convince 
good people to commit evil acts, including attempting to 
overthrow the United States government and overturn a 
free and fair election. 
11 Pastor Greg Locke preaches Christian nationalism as a person 
in the crowd holds up a Bible. 
Bloomberg Ouicktake: Now/ You Tube  Appendix B 
ATTACK ON THE CAPITOL: EVIDENCE OF THE 
ROLE OF WHITE CHRISTIAN NATIONALISM 
Andrew L. Seidel 
"My dear, when people show you who they 
are, why don't you believe them?" 
-Maya Angelou to Oprah Winfrey 
There were three paths to the Capitol on January 6. First, 
the Jericho Marchers shifted their prayerful focus from the 
Supreme Court to the Capitol.1 
Second, Stop the Steal organized its "Wild Protest,"2 a 
name chosen to echo Trump's December 19 tweet: "Big 
protest in D.C. on January 6th. Be there, will be wild!" 
Indeed, an Oath Keeper charged in the attack had posted 
earlier that Trump "wants us to make it WILD that's what 
he's saying."3 
The third path was the "Save America" rally hosted and 
managed by Women for America First, which hosted 
similar rallies on November 14 and December 12, opposite 
the Jericho March event. The January 6 stage was set 
up in front of the White House. The crowd chanted "Fight 
for Trump," and the speakers incited people to "fight."4 
The stage opened with Paula White, one of Trump's 
court evangelicals who was given a taxpayer-funded 
position in the White House, delivering an explicitly 
Christian nationalist and openly militant prayer.5 White 
began with pre-prayer remarks that discussed miracles 
12 and God's power, purpose, and plan, as interpreted by 
White. She then quoted a favorite Bible verse for Christian 
nationalists, Psalm 33:12, "Blessed is the nation whose 
God is Lord."6 She became more bellicose as she asked 
God, "[M]ay your people rise up and stand strong," to 
overturn their fear, and called for a "holy boldness.''7 She 
preached about "the Adversary," meaning Satan, and then 
transitioned into asking God to "overturn" -a verb choice 
often related to subverting elections -"every adversary 
against democracy."8 She called for "outpouring of your 
spirit like never before."9 This all echoed the framing from 
the previous weeks of a battle between light and dark, 
good and evil, Christians and the godless. White asked 
God and the listeners to back Trump in that battle, to 
"secure his destiny," and to "be his rear guard" and 
"go in front of him this day," and again called for 
"holy boldness."10 
White ended with a Christian nationalist version of the 
Lord's Prayer. The Bible (Matthew 6:9-13) attributes 
the words of this prayer to Jesus himself and it ends, 
"For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory,  The crowd erected a gallows and openly spoke about hanging elected officials. Shay Horse/ NurPhoto / Getty Images 
forever. Amen."11 White rewrote Jesus's prayer to include 
the U.S. After "forever," she added the following: "And we 
all said for this United States of America, Amen."12 White's 
final post-prayer flourish was to quote Trump, "For as our 
president says, 'We worship God, not government.' God 
bless you."13 
Rep. Mo Brooks, R-Ala., has been credibly accused 
of helping Stop the Steal organizers (along with Rep. 
Paul Gosar, R-Ariz., and Rep. Andy Biggs, R-Ariz.), an 
allegation Brooks denies.14 Wearing body armor under 
his clothing in anticipation of violence that day (Brooks 
said he was "warned" about "risks" but did not say who 
warned him, what those risks were, or why he didn't 
tell others15), Brooks took the stage between White and 
Trump to preach Christian nationalist-inspired talking 
points.16 He claimed that America was straying from its 
godly foundations and is therefore in danger. "We are 
here today because America is at risk, unlike it has been 
in decades and perhaps centuries. Socialist Democrats 
attack and mock our moral values, even to the point of 
sarcastically -in the United States Capitol, one of the 
most revered places in America -mockingly closing their 
hedonistic prayers with 'Amen and awoman.'"17 He mixed 
election lies and Christian nationalism: "We are not gonna 
let them continue to corrupt our elections and steal from 
13 us our God-given right to control our nation's destiny ... 
Today, Republican senators and congressmen will either 
vote to turn America into a godless, amoral, dictatorial, 
oppressed, and socialist nation on the decline. Or they 
will join us, and they will fight and vote against voter fraud 
and election theft and vote for keeping America great."18 
Brooks invoked the sacrifice of the founding fathers and 
demanded to know if the crowd was also willing to make 
such a sacrifice: "Are you willing to do the same? [cheers] 
My answer is yes. Louder! Are you willing to do what it 
takes? [cheers] To fight for America? [cheers] Louder!"19 
Arguing that America must get back to a godly foundation 
-a foundation it does not actually have -is a standard 
belief in Christian nationalism, and Brooks repeated the 
trope: "We American patriots are gonna come right at 
'em, that we American patriots are gonna take America 
back and restore the foundational principles that have 
combined to make us the greatest nation in world 
history."20 He concluded, "God bless America, and the 
fight begins today."21 
Brooks reiterated and even clarified these Christian 
nationalist ideologies after they led to violence on 
January 6.22 He told one journalist, "I make no apology for 
doing my absolute best to inspire patriotic Americans to 
not give up on our country and to fight back against anti- Christian socialists .... I encourage EVERY citizen to watch 
my entire rally speech and decide for themselves what 
kind of America they want: One based on freedom and 
liberty or one based on godless dictatorial power."23 
Others espousing Christian nationalist ideologies 
preached on the "Save America" stage, too. Rep. Madison 
Cawthorn, R-N.C., told a crowd in December to "call your 
congressman and feel free -you can lightly threaten 
them."24 He began his remarks on January 6 by saying, 
"Wow! This crowd has some fight in it!"25 He invoked the 
founders and said that the crowd "ha[d] the voice of lions," 
but that the courage was not reflected in "a significant 
portion of our [Republican] Party," bemoaning those who 
"have no backbone" and "sit idly by."26 
Trump's 2016 campaign spokesperson Katrina Pierson 
reiterated the Trump-as-savior talking points. Trump "loves 
the United States of America," she declared. "He loves 
God. He loves our flag, and he loves all of you. And that's 
why we're all here today. We love Trump. And I gotta tell 
you, I've never seen someone fight so hard, so strong, 
against everything, here and abroad, just to provide and 
protect our basic values and principles that keep our 
nation free and our people able to go to church."27 
Rudy Giuliani infamously asked for "trial by combat."28 
Alongside Giuliani on the stage was John Eastman, a 
senior fellow and director at the Claremont Institute, 
which one observer recently called "an increasingly white 
nationalist think tank."29 In Newsweek in August 2020, 
Eastman tried to kick off a second wave of birtherism 
against then-Sen. Kamala Harris, D-Calif., Joe Biden's 
running mate. Meanwhile, more details about his role in 
January 6 continue to emerge. Giuliani talked of invasion 
and freedom of religion, coded terms for Christian 
nationalism ideologies: "This has been a year in which 
they have invaded our freedom of speech, our freedom of 
religion, our freedom to move, our freedom to live."30 
The crowd was at a fever pitch when Trump took the 
stage. Photos and video show that, amid a sea of 
maskless faces and red hats, there were American flags, 
Trump flags, "Don't Tread on Me" flags (also known as 
Gadsden flags), and Confederate flags (including one 
with an AR-15 and the words "COME AND TAKE IT"),31 
accompanied by a mixture of Christian and patriotic 
imagery and messages, including Christian flags, "An 
Appeal to Heaven" flags, "Faith over Fear" flags, flags 
that read "Jesus is my Savior, Trump is my President," a 
cross made of PVC pipe,32 and a sign that simply said, 
"I am with you. -God."33 One sign proclaimed, "JESUS 
HAS THE THRONE."34 One woman listening to Trump 
had a makeshift shield -a metal trash can lid -that she 
painted red and on which she wrote "JESUS RULES," 
hoisting the shield after Trump concluded his speech, 
"God Bless America."35 
14 The Christian flag, "An Appeal to Heaven" flag, an upside 
down American flag, and others (including an "Unleash the 
Kraken" flag) fly over the crowd as Trump speaks at the 
"Save America" rally. ProPublica 
One of the signs at the "Save America" rally emphasizing that 
God is on the crowd's side. ProPublica 
Trump told the crowd "we're gonna walk down" to 
Congress to convince them "to confront this egregious 
assault on our democracy ... And I'll be there with you, 
we're going to walk down," and explained that "you'll 
never take back our country with weakness. You have to 
show strength and you have to be strong. We have come 
to demand that Congress do the right thing .... "36 
With the call to march on the Capitol ringing in their heads 
after weeks of spiritual warfare rhetoric and hints of 
violence, the crowd obeyed. 
Iconic imagery at the siege 
The imagery and violence of January 6 left indelible 
stamps on the American memory. Of the thousands of 
photos and videos taken that day, several moments have 
come to symbolize the insurrection. The five categories 
of iconic imagery examined here all have ties to Christian 
nationalism. The officers on duty that day described 
seeing the Christian nationalism, even if they didn't know 
what to call it. D.C. Metropolitan Police Officer Daniel 
Hodges testified to a House Select Committee, "It was 
clear the terrorists perceived themselves to be Christians," 
citing a small taste of the imagery and rhetoric noted in 
this document.37  Christian nationalist messages were penned on the gallows. 
Tyler Merbler / Flickr 
1. The Gallows 
The gallows, noose, and calls to hang any who were 
disloyal to Trump clarified that this was a lynch mob.38 
"Hang Mike Pence!" they chanted. An effigy branded a 
"traitor" with a noose around its neck was paraded on 
a stick to the Capitol.39 Days earlier, Proud Boys leader 
Joe Biggs wrote on the social media platform Parler, 
"Every law makers [sic] who breaks their own stupid 
Fucking laws should be dragged out of office and hung."40 
Recordings that day show the attackers were less artistic 
and more violent: "They've got the gallows set up outside 
the Capitol Building. It's time to start fucking using them."41 
Another attacker was asked by an NPR reporter what 
he hoped would come of January 6, and he was clear: 
"The people in this House who stole this election from us 
hanging from a gal low out here in this lawn for the whole 
world to see, so it never happens again. That's what 
needs to happen -four by four by four hanging from a 
rope out here for treason."42 The attackers that destroyed and piled up journalists' 
equipment screamed about collecting names. One said, 
"We start hunting them down, one by one," to cheers of 
the crowd and a response of "traitors get guillotine."43 
People posed for photos with the gallows. At one point, 
a man in a "Faith, Family, Freedom" sweatshirt was seen 
atop the gallows.44 They signed their names and added 
thoughts to the wooden gallows erected near the Capitol, 
including "Hang them high," "In God We Trust," "God Bless 
the USA," "Hang for treason," and "Amen."45 
2. The Cross 
One of the most ubiquitous symbols on January 6 was the 
Christian cross. Latin crosses are "the principal symbol of 
Christianity around the world," according to the Supreme 
Court,46 and, as used on January 6 by the insurrectionists, 
one of the clearest displays of Christian nationalism. 
Crosses were everywhere that day in D.C., on flags 
and flagpoles, on signs and clothes, around necks, and 
erected above the crowd. The Proud Boys also erected a 
massive cross using ropes in a viral video of the Michigan 
Capitol (a sister rally, not in D.C.).47 A cross with "Jesus 
Saves" written on one plank was featured in some news 
stories, and it was also paraded next to Alex Jones as 
he paused on the march to the Capitol, climbed atop a 
fountain -like a stage -and ranted on a megaphone.48 
The lead image on a New York Times article showed a 
white cross, maybe three feet tall, atop a flagpole with a 
"Trump: Keep America Great 2020" flag thrust high above 
the crowd in front of the Capitol as people chanted "Fight 
for Trump."49 
They erected an 8-foot wooden cross in Freedom Plaza 
(at the White House end of Pennsylvania Avenue)5° 
and another 8-foot tall cross at the Capitol that became 
disturbingly iconic after the crowd prayed around it. 
People worshipping at the cross on the east side of the Capitol during the attack. 
Left: Win McNamee / Getty Images. Right: Stefani Reynolds/ Bloomberg/ Getty Images 
15  That wooden cross attained infamy on the east side of the 
Capitol.51 Win McNamee photographed the man holding 
the cross with his forehead resting against it, seemingly 
in prayer; meanwhile, in the foreground, a man draped in 
a Trump flag with a smaller American flag on a wooden 
pole bowed down before that cross and groveled.52 
Other photos show the mob surrounding the cross in their 
red Trump hats, praying, laying hands on one another, 
and flying the "Trump Train" flag. These are just a few 
examples of crosses displayed during the insurrection. 
There were many, many more. 
3. Flags 
Flags have the potential to be the perfect symbol for 
Christian nationalism. We typically associate them with 
a country or nation or some sort of sovereign entity with 
geography over which to rule. Flags are meant to be 
symbols of this power, idea, and identity. The insurrection 
was wrapped in many flags that reflect the mythical 
Christian nation. 
The Confederate flag is paraded in the U.S. Capitol for the first 
time in American history. SAUL LOEB/ AFP / Getty Images 
The Confederate Flag 
As historians Dr. Keri Leigh Merritt and Dr. Rhae Lynn 
Barnes wrote, "[F]or the first time in American history, 
White supremacists treasonously raised a Confederate 
flag inside the United States Capitol, disrupting 
America's peaceful transfer of power and invoking 
tangled memories of our nation's Civil War."53 And this 
too is a relic of Christian nationalism, albeit Confederate 
Christian nationalism.54 
Kevin Seefried carried the flag of white supremacy 
and traitors into the Capitol that day, but he did more. 
According to the FBI, Seefried and his son, Hunter, 
listened to Trump's speech, marched to the Capitol and 
watched as lumber 2x4s and riot shields were used to 
break windows.55 They then helped clear the glass and 
16 entered the building. A Christian Chronicle correspondent 
and minister, Hamil Harris, filmed Seefried with his 
seditious flag outside the Capitol exhorting people to "go 
inside" the Capitol, stop "sitting down," and yelling, "This 
is just the beginning."56 
Ruth Braunstein, a professor of sociology and author of 
Prophets and Patriots: Faith in Democracy across the 
Political Divide and co-editor of Religion and Progressive 
Activism: New Stories About Faith and Politics, observed 
that the juxtaposition of symbols -including the 
Confederate flag alongside Christian imagery and anti­
Semtic T-shirts -was striking. "The riot was a pitch­
perfect performance of the kind of white Christian 
nationalism that has ebbed and flowed throughout 
American history-from 1860 to 1960, 1920 to 2021."57 
The Christian Flag 
The Christian flag was everywhere on January 6.58 In a 
conversation caught on video as the mob surged into 
the Capitol and shots were about to be fired, a man 
stood flying two gold-fringed Christian flags, the Capitol 
and mob just behind him, and said, "Donald Trump 
coordinated it. We're his surrogates." He pauses, looks at 
The Christian flag (above) is carried onto the floor of the U.S. 
Senate (below). NBC News  the flags, and adds, "Jesus loves us."59 One photo shows 
the Christian flag flying above another flag that reads, 
"JESUS IS KING."60 
The insurrectionists also paraded the Christian flag 
around the Senate on January 6. Perhaps it escaped 
notice because not many recognized it. 
NBC News reporter Frank Thorp was in the Senate 
Gallery as about a dozen attackers rifled through 
senators' desks on the floor of the Senate.61 Thorp 
captured the attackers on video, including one who 
carried and planted the Christian flag on the floor of the 
Senate.62 One year later, the attacker with the flag who 
also rifled through senators' desks and photographed 
their papers has not even been identified. 
The mob and police clash around a "Jesus is my Savior, Trump 
is my President" flag. Lev Radin/ Pacific Press/ Shutterstock 
Other Flags 
Many insurrectionists favored flags that read "Jesus is my 
Savior, Trump is my President,"63 and many wore flags as 
capes, including the Savior/President flag.64 
The "An Appeal to Heaven" flag was also common. 
One widely circulated image shows it streaming above 
the massive "JESUS 2020" banner.65 One of those "An 
Appeal to Heaven" flags was on a literal pitchfork used 
as a flagpole.66 This flag's message was important to the 
attackers. One handmade version was explicit: "An 
Appeal to Heaven: A Cry for Divine Justice."67 In an 
interview, one of the attackers who got to the Senate 
floor and was part of the infamous prayer singled out the 
flag, stating, "We appeal to heaven because we -as 
individuals, we're powerless."68 
The "An Appeal to Heaven" flag has long been popular 
with Christian nationalists, including preachers.69 Arkansas 
state Senator Jason Rapert, who is also a preacher and 
a legislative sponsor of bills to require the posting of "In 
God We Trust" in every public school classroom, is very 
17 fond of this flag and its message.7° Ra pert posed with that 
same flag in front of the U.S. Supreme Court on a previous 
trip to D.C. and regularly has people hold it on stage when 
he preaches.71 
Other flags featured the ichthys,72 a symbol of Christianity 
colloquially known as the "Jesus fish." One person 
carrying such a flag that included the words "Proud 
American Christian"73 also wore a sign featuring the 
Christian dove that symbolizes the Holy Spirit and that 
also said "WWJD" for "We Want Justice Delivered,"74 
adding the QAnon callsign "WWG1WGA," meaning, 
"where we go one, we go all."75 At one point, the crowd 
around one of these proud American ichthys flags began 
chanting "Trump is president, Christ is king!''76 An 8-foot 
long banner with the "Trump is president, Christ is king" 
slogan featured a Byzantine icon of Jesus, complete 
with halo and huge Bible with a cross, and it was flown 
between an American flag and a blue "Keep America 
Great" flag in front of the Washington monument as the 
mob marched to the Capitol.77 
The FBI posted a photo of some of its most wanted 
perpetrators on January 6 breaking through the doors 
and windows on the first floor of the west side of the 
Capitol, and a flag with an ichthys on a red background 
with crosses in the corner is flying in the foreground of the 
photo as attackers batter the glass.78 
PROUD AMERICAN ~ES>< 
CHRISTIAN 
Examples of "Jesus fish" flags seen in the January 6 crowd. 
Below: A photograph shared by the FBI features a flag with 
the "Jesus fish" and Latin crosses as insurrectionists break 
windows to enter the Capitol. FBI 
Photograph #2408 
The FBI Is seeking lo ldenUfy Individuals Involved In the riots at the U.S. Gaptlcl on January O, 2021. Gall 1-ftOO·GALL·FBl or  A new spin on MAGA: "Make America Godly Again." Tayfun Coskun / Anadolu Agency/ Getty Images 
Yet other flags included: 
• A more explicitly Christian nationalist version 
of MAGA, "Make America Godly Again," on an 
American flag.79 
• "Born, Raised, and Protected by God, Guns, Guts, 
and Glory," which attackers waved as they stood on 
police vehicles outside the Capitol.80 
• A black Christian cross and two assault rifles were 
superimposed over the American flag with the 
words, "GOD GUNS TRUMP."81 
• "Thank You President Trump God Bless America" in 
white lettering on a blue field with a red border.82 
• A black, vertical flag with a photo of a large lion's 
head, with "TRUMP" written above the head in red 
letters while below the head read, "The Lion in you 
NEVER RETREATS. Proverbs 30:30."83 
• One pole held three Christian-themed flags: one "An 
Appeal to Heaven" flag; a "FAITH OVER FEAR" flag; 
and a flag with a lamb, dove, and lion.84 
• Another man, also on the march over to the Capitol, 
waved the flag of Israel above a sign begging 
the crowd to "Say Yes To Jesus," featuring Jesus 
himself kneeling in prayer.85 4. Signs, clothing, and Bible verses 
Then there were the signs. Printed yellow signs 
proclaiming "Jesus Saves" stood out everywhere in the 
crowd, including the mob surging up the steps and into 
the Capitol itself.86 Two preachers with the yellow "Jesus 
Saves" sign -and the same message on sweatshirts and 
vests -preached to the crowd through a bullhorn.87 One 
video shows EMTs rushing an unidentified injured person 
to an ambulance, pushing the stretcher past a "Jesus 
Saves" sign and a man holding a "Jesus is my Savior, 
Trump is my President" flag.88 
At least one "JESUS 2020" banner was hung by the 
crowd, many of whom held signs that echoed the 
sentiment.89 As mentioned earlier (when it was held near 
Alex Jones), one sign was in the shape of a cross with the 
phrase "Jesus Saves."90 Another read "Glory to God."91 
Yet another sign, dotted with crosses, read "TO GOD 
THE GLORY TRUTH & JUSTICE DEEP STATE EXPOSED 
TRUMP 2021-24."92 Another: "Moultrie Co., IL LOVES 
JESUS, the CONSTITUTION+ TRUMP."93 
One hat read "God, Guns, Trump" with a cross after 
"God" and an American flag on the bill.94 "God Chose 
Trump to Save USA," said one banner.95 "God's Word 
calls Dem out!" proclaimed a sign.96 One man wore a  One of the many yellow "Jesus Saves" signs seen on January 6 
and in the events leading up to the insurrection. 
Robert Nickels berg/ Getty Images 
Black Warrior XII T-shirt, which had Christian crosses on 
the front and back and American flags on the arms along 
with the phrase: "Jesus dies for all of us because all lives 
matter."97 A black pickup truck pulled a massive trailer with 
a white billboard that said in block letters "THOU SHALT 
NOT STEAL'.' and "#STOPTHESTEAL." People signed the 
billboard and wrote things like, "In God We Trust," "Free 
the CHURCH!!!," "Jesus!," "1 Peter 1:19-20," and entire 
Bible verses.98 
Bible verses and phrases were as ubiquitous as crosses. 
Some of the more militant attackers, including at least two 
in tactical helmets and military-grade gas masks, sported 
"Armor of God" patches on their camouflage fatigues.99 
The military-style patches feature a large Christian cross 
and invoke the passage in Ephesians 6:10-17, in which 
Christians are instructed to "put on the armor of God." 
Attacker Samuel Lazar wore face paint and a patch on his 
tactical gear that bore the words: "Blessed be the Lord, 
my rock, who trains my hands for war, and my fingers for 
battle." [Psalm 144:1 ESV]1°0 
Other Bible verses in the crowd included one sign that 
simply listed Heb. 4:12, Jer. 4:7, Psalm 67.101 In one video, 
the mob can be seen moving to breach the east steps 
of the Capitol while a Christian flag and a "Jesus is my 
Savior, Trump is my President" flag are visible, as well as 
the sign with the citations for those three Bible verses.102 
Another sign seen that day read "Ye must be born again. 
Jn 3:7 [referencing John 3:7 KJV]."103 One handwritten sign 
featured citations for 13 Bible verses.104 
Not only Bible verses, but the book itself was a totem 
of the crowd. A man wearing skeleton gloves posed for 
media photos with a Bible in the chaos and then, when 
the crowd finally breached the building and surged into 
the doors, that same gloved hand thrust the Bible in the 
air for the mob to follow.105 
19 5. White Jesus and religious iconography 
Perhaps the best symbol of the day was the modified, 
syncretic portrait of white Jesus, about four feet tall, that 
one woman carried. It showed a popular depiction of 
Jesus -Peter V. Bianchi's portrait, "I am the Truth, The 
Light and the Way," -altered to have Jesus wearing a red 
MAGA hat with "#WWG1WGA:' on his white robes.106 
Popular American depictions of Jesus depict him with 
white skin -Bianchi's portrait and Warner Sallman's 
"Head of Christ" are perhaps the most popular -but first­
century residents of the Levant did not look like the white 
man in those portraits. Jesus was not white,107 nor did 
Jesus wear a MAGA hat. 
One person carried two 5-foot-tall portraits with religious 
iconography. One depicted a white Jesus standing tall 
in white robes with a halo of light, hand raised in front 
of his chest shooting out beams of red and blue light 
with the words "Jesus, I trust in you." The image is called 
"Divine Mercy," as interpreted by Adolf Hyla and then by 
Kathleen Weber in 1992. The second painting was of Mary 
in a gilded frame -specifically, the Virgin of Guadalupe, 
patroness of Mexico and all the Americas.108 As the mob 
occupied the east steps of the Capitol and breached 
those doors, the two large Jesus and Mary portraits were 
displayed in the East plaza, framing the territory as clearly 
as the flags and crosses.109 
White #MAGA QAnon Jesus is perhaps the best symbol of the 
day. Tyler Merbler / Flickr  The crowd carried framed paintings, including these two: 
Divine Mercy and the Virgin of Guadalupe. 
Andrew L. Seidel/ Twitter 
The framed paintings are placed at the foot of the east steps as 
the mob flooded into the Capitol. ProPublica 
Like the eagles the Roman legions carried, the mob 
carried religious symbols and statuary above their heads, 
including what looks like a bronze shrine to Mary in the 
Lady of Peace pose with upturned hands slightly raised 
and out to the sides, borne atop a pole.110 There also was 
a painted Christ child king known as the Infant of Prague.111 
A colorful tapestry of the Virgin of Guadalupe and three 
angels on the reverse side can be seen in this same 
mob,112 as well as a white, marble-esque Mary wrapped 
20 A statue of Mary wrapped in a rosary (lower left) and a banner 
of Mary as the Virgin of Guadalupe (upper right) are hoisted 
above the crowd on the east steps. Andrew L. Seidel/ Twitter 
in a rosary held above the heads of the attackers surging 
up the steps and attacking the Capitol door.113 Another 
attacker can be seen attempting to breach a different 
Capitol door with his rosary wrapped around his hand, on 
which a fellow insurrectionist remarked.114 He wasn't the 
only one,115 and one priest said he performed an exorcism 
in the Capitol.116 
In their own words: 
Christian nationalism 
The prayer in the Senate 
The impromptu prayer in the U.S. Senate chamber 
captured by the New Yorker began with one 
insurrectionist, Michael Roche, praying:117 
Jesus Christ, we invoke your name, Amen! 
The 30-40 other insurrectionists in the chamber echoed 
with loud "Amens" of their own. In a post-insurrection 
interview posted to Facebook, Roche said: 
My name is Michael Roche. We're here in Washington, 
D.C. We did get a chance to storm the Capitol. And 
we made it into the chamber ... We managed to 
convince the cops to let us through. They listened to 
reason. And when we got into the chamber .... [W]e 
all started praying and shouting in the name of 
Jesus Christ, and inviting Christ back into our state 
[sic] capitol. 
Roche's brother posted a photo of Roche and one of the 
most prominent insurrectionists, Jacob Anthony Chansley,  Michael Roche shouts in the Capitol (left) and poses for a photo with Jacob Chansley (right) in a Facebook post shared by Roche's 
brother. ROBERTO SCHMIDT/ AFP / Getty Images 
writing, "My brother was shoulder to shoulder praying in 
Jesus name in the main capital [sic] chamber holding up 
the Bible."118 
After Roche shouted his invocation, Chansley suggested a 
more formal prayer. 
The crowd agreed, and many approached the dais as 
though this were an altar call in a church. Chansley led 
them in the following prayer: 
Let's all say a prayer in this sacred space. Thank you 
Heavenly Father for gracing us with this opportunity. 
[Pause for all to remove hats and bow heads] 
Thank you our Heavenly Father for this opportunity to 
stand up for our God-given unalienable rights. Thank 
you heavenly Father for being the inspiration needed 
to these police officers to allow us into the building; 
to allow us to exercise our rights; to allow us to send 
a message to all the tyrants, the communists, and the 
globalists, that this is our nation, not theirs. That we 
will not allow the America -the American way of the 
United States of America, to go down. 
Thank you divine, omniscient, omnipotent, and 
omnipresent creator God, for filling this chamber 
with your white light of love, with your white light 
of harmony. Thank you for filling this chamber with 
patriots that love you and that love Christ. 
Thank you divine, omniscient, omnipotent, and 
omnipresent creator God for blessing each and 
every one of us here and now. Thank you divine 
creator God for surrounding and filling us with the 
21 U,\,i 
On the Senate dais, Chansley delivers a prayer over a bullhorn 
while Roche raises his arms and looks to the ceiling in worship. 
The New Yorker/ YouTube 
divine omnipresent white light of love and protection, 
peace and harmony. Thank you for allowing the 
United States of America to be reborn. Thank you 
for allowing us to get rid of the communists, the 
globalists, and the traitors within our government. We 
love you and we thank you. In Christ's holy name we 
pray! Amen. 
[All Shout:] Amen!119 
The idea of the country being "reborn" and specifically 
reborn "in Christ's holy name," which is how the prayer 
concluded, is central to Christian nationalism. This is 
also why Roche described them as "inviting Christ back 
into our state [sic] capitol." They were seeking to return 
the nation to a mythical past that does not exist, but that 
mythical past is central to their identity.  Chansley at an election protest in Arizona just three days after 
Election Day, holding a sign that says "GOD WINS." 
Hope O'Brien/ Twitter 
The BBC interviewed Chansley and reported on January 
10 that he believed "he had done nothing wrong and 
he had truth and God on his side."120 He told the FBI 
that he was only able to get into the Senate chamber 
"by the grace of God."121 In video shot just outside the 
Capitol after the attack, Chansley explained that he left 
the Capitol because "Donald Trump asked everybody 
to go home, he just put out a tweet -it's a minute long 
-he asked everybody to go home."122 He believed he 
attacked at God's behest and left at Trump's request. 
Chansley explained that Trump only asked him and the 
other supporters to leave "because, dude, we won the 
fucking day, we fucking won." The victory was "sending 
a message to the senators and the congressmen" and 
Vice President Pence, that if they don't do what the 
attackers wanted -overturn the results of the 2020 
election -then "we will remove them from office, one 
way or another," again invoking a violence represented by 
the gallows. Chansley likened doubters of the January 6 
victory to those who doubted the divinity of Jesus: "a lot 
of people doubted a lot of prophets, saints, and sages -a 
lot of people doubted Christ. All I can say to those people 
is haters can hate. I don't give a shit." 
Chansley exemplifies the stew of identities and ideologies 
at the insurrection, especially the connections between 
Christian nationalism and QAnon, hence his nom de 
guerre, "QAnon Shaman." He was photographed in 
Arizona on November 6, 2020, just three days after 
Election Day. Protesting the election results, he carried a 
sign that said "HOLD THE LINE PATRIOTS. GOD WINS" on 
one side and "Q sent me" on the other.123 
Other prayers on January 6 
The prayer in the Senate checked most boxes of Christian 
nationalist ideologies, but prayer was used in many places 
that day. 
As insurrectionists overran the Capitol, staffers who 
22 A demonstrator prays in Washington, D.C., on January 6. 
Eric Lee/ Bloomberg/ Getty Images 
had barricaded themselves in one of Senate Majority 
Leader Mitch McConnell's offices heard a female attacker 
"praying loudly outside their door for 'the evil of Congress 
to be brought to an end."'124 When the crowd arrived at 
the Capitol after Trump's speech, they hailed the Proud 
Boys as "God's warriors."125 They then knelt in prayer, 
as they had at the rallies in the preceding weeks.126 The 
prayer -just like the prayer in the Senate -included 
typical Christian nationalist rhetoric about returning and 
revival.127 Several other groups prayed in the Capitol 
Rotunda.128 One of these prayer groups first sang a few 
lines from the Battle Hymn of the Republic, similar to how 
they sang along to the song at the Jericho March event 
three weeks earlier.129 They then prayed "in the name 
of Jesus, Amen."13° Citizen investigators suggest that at 
least four of those praying in that particular circle were 
Oath Keepers. Others knelt in prayer as law enforcement 
worked to clear the Capitol.131 The founder of Cowboys for 
Trump prayed through a bullhorn above the crowd: "Let 
us pray Second Chronicles, chapter 7, verse 14, over our 
nation. Let us pray. Our Father says that if we will repent 
and pray, he will hear our prayers." The crowd chanted, 
"Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump!," 
unfurled a flag with "An Appeal to Heaven" on it, and 
held a "Trump 2020" flag on a pole topped with a white 
Christian cross alongside another flagpole with a sign that 
said, "Jesus, I trust in you."132 
Another group prayed as the masses of attackers 
swarmed the scaffolding outside the Capitol.133 A man 
in a white shirt emblazoned with a red cross -sold as a 
"Crusader Knights Templar Distressed Cross T-Shirt"134 
-led a prayer circle outside the Capitol as attackers 
overwhelmed police.135 He prayed for a small circle of 
people while a woman in the prayer circle held aloft a 
handwritten "In God We Trust" sign. The man was also 
photographed holding the sign that day, which featured 
Christian crosses on the corners.136 The prayers often 
sought the restoration of a Christian nation that never was.  Religious music and shofars 
During the attack, people blew shofars, as they did at 
Jericho March events, and chanted, "The blood of Jesus 
covering this place," meaning the Capitol.137 One shofar 
was painted with an American flag motif.138 There was 
also music, including a mobile stage of sorts. "Cry out, 
I will heal the land, cause only Jesus saves. Yeah, only 
Jesus saves. Bring peace right now even for the guy that 
got shot. In Jesus' name," they sang.139 On the march 
to the Capitol, some paused for an impromptu worship 
concert.140 Several women -one wearing a Trump flag 
as a cape and red MAGA hat -can be seen singing and 
swaying to worship songs.141 Five others, including some 
children in red MAGA hats, kneel and sway to the music 
as a man in a leather Harley Davidson jacket enters the 
center of the circle, in front of the speakers, and kneels 
in praise as the crowd cheers. On the grass just next to 
the Peace Monument,142 a 50-plus person Christian choir 
sings, "believers in Jesus, lifting up our voices to the 
Lord," with a Christian flag flying behind them.143 They 
appear to be singing a modified version of Robert Gay's 
"People of the Lord." This version of the song begins: " ... 
We are going forth, with His praises on our lips, and a 
sword in our hands, we are marching on with power, as 
we possess this land."144 They also sang, "the Lord will 
fight the battles for his people when we cry aloud unto 
him and he will crush the enemy .... "145 
Near the end of the insurrection, the leaders of Jericho 
March sought to control the damage and blame the media 
for distorting the violent insurrection into something more 
than a peaceful march. The group posted two videos 
to Twitter, both taken earlier in the day but -according 
to the timestamps -they were posted as after-the-fact 
justifications that evening. One Tweet said, "You won't see 
this on #fakenews, but here is what the patriots looked 
like -singing patriotic songs, praying, and chanting 
USA. Here they are singing God Bless America." The 
accompanying video showed the singing as Christian 
flags, Trump flags, and American flags flew over the 
crowd on the west side of the Capitol. At that point, the 
crowd had already swarmed over police barriers and 
climbed scaffolding.146 The video shows the initial stages 
of the attack on the Capitol in an effort to stop American 
democracy. Jericho March's Twitter feed posted another 
video showing "Catholic patriots praying the rosary."147 
As the fallout and second impeachment commenced, 
those false narratives evaporated. Many of the indicted 
insurrectionists openly spoke about going to the Capitol 
to stop the election, boasting that they were Trump's 
Jesus-loving patriots. 
Confessions and prior statements 
Prayers aside, we have the confessions of many of the 
attackers themselves. They admit that prayer guided their 
actions leading up to the fateful day and on the day itself. 
23 The Wall Street Journal spoke with one attacker who: 
... felt the need to go inside to share his views with 
Congress but wanted to consult God first. He prayed 
aloud: "Lord, is this the right thing to do? Is this what 
I need to do?" He says he felt God's hand on his back, 
pushing him forward. "I checked with the Lord," he 
says. "I checked with Him three times. I never heard 
a 'No."'14s 
After the attack, insurrectionist Jenny Cudd149 filmed and 
posted a video of herself discussing the attack while 
sipping a beer.150 A Trump flag is still tied around her neck. 
"Hey, patriots," she begins her 25-minute video, "I'm 
gonna tell y'all what actually happened today." 
Cudd closes her video with a textbook example of 
Christian nationalism: 
To me, God and country are tied -to me they're 
one and the same. We were founded as a Christian 
country. And we see how far we have come from that. 
When they make an absolute mockery of us and pray 
to some heathen god and say "amen and awoman." 
What the fuck is that? We are a godly country, and 
we are founded on godly principles. And if we do not 
have our country, nothing else matters.151 
Top photo: Leo Kelly (far right) stands next to the Senate dais 
just before the prayer. The New Yorker/ YouTube 
Bottom photo: Kelly gives an interview to LifeSiteNews in his 
hotel room that evening. LifeSiteNews  Cudd raised funds for her legal defense on a Christian 
fundraising website, whose founder claims "everything we 
do and what our platform delivers is Christ-centered."152 
In her plea, Cudd explained her actions: "I love my 
country, President Trump, the Constitution, & the Christian 
principles our country was founded on. God made me a 
fighter not a coward .... If you cannot contribute, please 
pray. God bless the U.S.A.!"153 
Leo Kelly and Joshua Matthew Black, two of the 
insurrectionists who invaded the Senate and participated 
in the Christian nationalist prayer led by Chansley, 
later recounted the moment. Kelly gave a post-attack 
interview in his hotel room with LifeSiteNews, a far-right 
propaganda outlet based in Canada that is "a known 
purveyor of misleading information" according to Snopes 
and has been banned from Facebook and YouTube for 
spreading disinformation about COVID-19.154 He talked 
about getting onto the floor of the Senate: "We said a 
prayer in there ... One guy up there ... said we should pray 
and some of us did. He was on his bullhorn/microphone 
thing and he just consecrated it to Jesus."155 
Joshua Matthew Black also described the attack and, like 
Kelly, can be seen in the New Yorker video joining the 
prayer with hands raised in worship after rifling through 
the desk of Sen. Ted Cruz with several other attackers.156 
Black rifling through senators' desks, on the floor of the 
Senate in camouflage and gloves, and later as he appears 
in his selfie video. The New Yorker/ You Tube 
24 Like Cudd, Black justified the attack in a selfie video 
while wearing Trump paraphernalia.157 At the outset, 
Black explained his goal: "I just wanted to get inside the 
building so I could plead the blood of Jesus over it. That 
was my goal."158 Black attributed every action he took to a 
conversation he had with God. First, he wondered, "Why 
are we just sitting here?" and then: 
I started praying. I said, "Lord, I don't know what to 
do. What do you want me to do?" You know, he said, 
"go to the top of the steps," and I was like, "Lord, it's 
packed. I can't get up in there." And then he said, 
"look up," and I looked up and there's a bunch of 
people ... that had been sprayed with mace and they 
were coming down the steps like blind people with 
their hands out ... and I just felt my heart go right 
there. I was like, "Are you sure Lord? Because I'm not 
a big fan of pepper spray, you know what I'm saying?" 
And he was like, "no, go." I said, "okay, Lord." So I 
walked over the top and next thing I know, I'm at the 
door. I don't know how I got there, but I was at the 
door and people were -it was a mob rule situation 
... the patriots were pissed ... so much anger. So I just 
kept saying, "praise the name of Jesus. Glory to God. 
God bless America. Praise the name of Jesus. I plead 
the blood of Jesus. Glory to God. God bless America." 
And next thing I know I'm up there at the police and 
there's six of them in this little door.159 
Black described entering the Capitol and walking around 
"yelling, 'Praise the name of Jesus. Glory to God. God 
bless America. I plead the blood of Jesus.' ... [W]hen I 
was talking this, it must have been the spirit of God in me 
because people tended to do what I said, and I'm not like 
an imposing figure." Then he recounted reaching a door 
he says is marked ''U.S. Senate": 
The Holy Spirit just fell on me and I just started 
weeping ... It was awesome. The presence of God is 
like the best drug on earth .... It was awesome ... If I 
had it to do over again though I would have ... prayed 
about the evil spirits that were in there. I'd have cast 
them out. But I didn't even think of that ... So I got 
down on my knees, started praying, I started lifting my 
hands, I was like, "Praise the name of Jesus. Thank 
you, Lord for the blood of Jesus" ... I'd accomplished 
my goal. I pied the blood of Jesus on the Senate floor. 
I praised the name of Jesus on the Senate floor. That 
was my goal. I think that was God's goal ... I think the 
Lord wanted me to be there.160 
In the video, Black also complains that the Democrats 
are "anti-Christian," insinuates that Vice President-Elect 
Kamala Harris slept her way to the top, announced plans 
to start a prison ministry, and assures viewers that he's not 
a racist for wearing a "Blacks for Trump" shirt because his 
last name is Black and "it's an inside joke." He concluded, 
"I guess that's it. God bless America. I don't know what's 
happening next but God wins."161  Other people at the Capitol were just as clear about their 
motivations. The Atlantic interviewed a man from Texas 
who said "that the country was coming apart and that 
this dissolution presaged the End Times."162 The man told 
The Atlantic editor Jeffrey Goldberg, "It's all in the Bible ... 
Everything is predicted. Donald Trump is in the Bible. Get 
yourself ready." 
Goldberg, who was there and spoke to people in the 
crowd, explains, "The conflation of Trump and Jesus was 
a common theme at the rally. 'Give it up if you believe in 
Jesus!' a man yelled near me. People cheered. 'Give it up 
if you believe in Donald Trump!' Louder cheers."163 
Stephen Baker livestreamed his invasion of the Capitol, 
often addressing the audience. "We're having fun, huh? 
Repent and believe in Jesus," he told his viewers.164 Baker 
mentioned and may be affiliated with the white nationalist 
group "Red Elephants," and he regularly streams Christian 
content. By July 2021, he was openly defending Christian 
nationalism, and he wrote a piece titled "Why I'm A 
Christian Nationalist."165 
Joseph Padilla is seen on multiple videos, including 
police officer body camera video, attacking police lines 
and trying to breach the Capitol. He posted online about 
it, believing God was on his side: "I was right there. I 
have the wounds to prove it. I pushed the rails, I pushed 
the stairs, and then pushed the doorway. I was beaten 
unconscious twice, sprayed more times than I care to 
count, received strikes from batons that should have been 
lethal (Multiple temple and carotid strikes) except that God 
was on my side."166 
Christian Chronicle correspondent and minister Hamil 
Harris (mentioned earlier) interviewed some people 
outside the Capitol, and they regurgitated Christian 
nationalist talking points. "I feel like the Democrats are 
slapping our Creator in the face: God Almighty ... As a 
Christian I feel that I need to stand up for my political 
leaders that are fighting for us. That's my right, that's 
my freedom as a Christian. God calls us," said Diane 
McMichael.167 Her husband Bob added another perfect 
Christian nationalist encapsulation: "[W]e are certainly 
founded on, 'under God,' 'one nation under God' and 
certainly our roots were there and we've turned our back 
on it."168 Another interviewee lamented how the country 
seemed to be turning back on its godly roots, which is 
the core of the Christian nationalist narrative. She said, "I 
remember back in the day, I used to go to church school 
-I used to be released and be able to go to church 
school! I remember praying in school. I remember all of 
that. And when all that started to stop, I think our country 
just have been slowly, slowly turning away from that."169 
William McCall Calhoun Jr. is one of the attackers who 
kicked in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's door thinking the 
crowd would tear her "into little pieces."170 After Calhoun 
25 was charged, his rantings were recounted at one of his 
hearings: "God is on Trump's side. God is not on the 
Democrats' side. And if patriots have to kill 60 million of 
these communists, it is God's will. Think ethnic cleansing 
but it's anti-communist cleansing."171 
Luke Coffee's father is a full-time minister who preaches 
in prisons.172 Coffee himself is another attacker who 
admitted in a since-deleted Facebook video to fighting 
the police, recounting how he tried to break and push 
against the police line: "I pushed all against the line and 
was, like, trying to drive them back, and God gave me 
some supernatural energy."173 He added, "And I literally 
thought I was getting gassed to death like I was in Nazi 
Germany, a Jew getting gassed to death." Body camera 
footage shows Coffee assaulting the police line with a 
metal crutch.174 This was right at the moment when officer 
Michael Fa none of Washington, D.C.'s Metropolitan Police 
Department was pulled out of a police line and beaten 
by the mob. Despite ample evidence of his assault on 
officers, in another since-deleted video, nearly two hours 
long, Coffee claims: "I was asking people to pray. Because 
there was chaos. Satan uses chaos to manipulate and 
tell lies."175 
Even if they were not explicitly recounting the Christian 
nationalist motivations of the day, the link was so clear 
that other attackers, more serious in their desire to do 
violence, piggybacked on the ideologies of Christian 
nationalism. One of the attackers, a self-professed white 
supremacist who wanted to be a "lone wolf killer," was on 
probation, but via text message on the evening of January 
4, he convinced his parole officer to let him go to D.C. 
"to distribute Bibles with ... Gideon International," which 
he had done before.176 He invaded the Capitol wearing 
a Proud Boys T-shirt, pausing to flash the white power 
symbol and pose for photos with a Confederate flag. 
Infamous photos show an insurrectionist in a black winter 
beanie and a black shirt with a large QAnon "Q" and 
eagle over a gray hoodie, advancing through the halls of 
The infamous photo of Doug Jensen confronting police officers 
in the halls of the Capitol. Manuel Ba Ice Ceneta I AP  Officer Goodman lures Jensen and others in the mob away 
from lawmakers. Igor Bobic/ Twitter 
Mike Sparks (center) and Jensen confront officers. 
Igor Bobic/ Twitter 
the Capitol with his arms spread wide.177 That was Doug 
Jensen.178 Jensen was the leading insurrectionist that 
pursued Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman. 
To be more accurate, Officer Goodman lured Jensen and 
the mob away from the Senate, running up stairs to draw 
the attackers away from members of Congress and into 
a hallway with police reinforcements. Jensen demanded 
the officers go and arrest Vice President Pence.179 Much 
attention has been rightly paid to Goodman's heroics 
and to QAnon's role in motivating the attackers, as seen 
on Jensen's shirt. But Christian nationalism motivated 
them, too. 
Ten days earlier, on December 27, Jensen replied to a 
Donald Trump tweet that blamed the COVID-19 pandemic 
on China. Jensen wrote, "God Bless Americans and God 
Bless President Trump."180 The header photo on Jensen's 
now-suspended account featured a religious grotto that 
included a cross, the Divine Mercy image, and a Mary 
statue holding baby Jesus in an alcove.181 The grotto is the 
26 Sparks wearing the "Armor of God" T-shirt in his mug shot and 
confronting officers in the Capitol. 
Oldham County Detention Center 
Sparks (left) with Kevin (center) and Hunter Seefried (right) 
confronting officers. Kevin Seefried is carrying the Confederate 
flag. Manuel Balce Ceneta I AP 
Diocesan Shrine of Our Lady of Mount Carmel & Divine 
Mercy in Des Moines, and it appears to be a photo Jensen 
himself took and posted, not one pulled off the internet.182 
The splinter mob Jensen led included Kevin and Hunter 
Seefried, the father and son duo who carried the 
Confederate flag, and Mike Sparks, a white Christian, 
who shouted at Goodman, a Black man, "This is 
our America!"183 
Sparks posted on his Facebook page, "A new dawn 
is coming. Be ready. Just pray and trust in the Lord" 
and "TRUMP WILL BE YOUR PRESIDENT 4 more years 
in JESUS NAME."184 In his mug shot, Sparks is wearing 
a T-shirt with two crossed swords and a shield with 
a stylized cross, which reads, "Armor of God, 
Ephesians 6:11."185 
Another haunting image was the militarized man in black 
carrying a holstered weapon and zip-tie handcuffs -or 
"flex cuffs" -photographed as he vaulted railings in the 
Senate gallery.186  Eric Munchel vaulting rails in the gallery with zip ties. 
Win McNamee / Getty Images 
Later identified as Eric Gavelek Munchel, he gave an 
impromptu interview at a hotel after the attack. He 
explained that he was "just a hidden patriot" and "I 
am very worried about our country -where it's going 
politically, religiously and, just, morally."187 Munchel took 
video of the march to the Capitol, along the way passing 
one of the ubiquitous yellow "Jesus Saves" signs. As he 
saw it, he commented, "Jesus saves, and so do guns."188 
At one point, a woman walking close to Munchel -
perhaps his mother, Lisa Eisenhart -begins reading 
the signs out loud. The voice says, "Chinese American 
Republicans. God bless you people. God bless them."189 
In an interview with the British newspaper The Sunday 
Times, Munchel explained that he "wanted to show 
that we're willing to rise up, band together and fight if 
necessary. Same as our forefathers, who established 
this country in 1776."190 He said the attack was "a kind of 
flexing of muscles" and that "[t]he point of getting inside 
the building is to show them that we can, and we will."191 
The pretrial detention memo notes that "agents located 
approximately 15 firearms, including assault rifles, a sniper 
rifle with a tripod, other rifles, shotguns, and pistols, and 
hundreds of rounds of ammunition. Agents also located a 
drum-style magazine."192 
27 Christian nationalism was 
the "driving force" 
An NPR journalist who is an expert in American extremist 
groups was struck by the diversity of the extremism 
that day: 
Am I going to see an Oath Keeper? OK, there's an 
Oath Keeper. Am I going to see the Three Percent 
logo? Definitely saw some of them there. Qanon, 
huge presence at this one. I saw neo-Confederates 
in the crowd, all sorts of white supremacist and neo­
Nazi insignia, too. And all of the strands of American 
extremism were there in the same crowd. And what's 
wilder is that they were in the same crowd with, you 
know, a grandmother from Arizona, you know, who 
fervently believes in her heart that the election was 
stolen and that her vote didn't matter.193 
Yes, the groups were diverse. But it was the Christian 
nationalism that united them that day. 
When writing this report and the epilogue of my book, 
I spoke with Luke Mogelson, the New Yorker journalist 
who filmed the shocking video of the attack from inside 
the Capitol. "The Christianity was one of the surprises 
to me in covering this stuff, and it has been hugely 
underestimated," he said. "That Christian nationalism you 
talk about is the driving force and also the unifying force 
of these disparate players. It's really Christianity that ties it 
all together."  Appendix C 
CHRISTIAN NATIONALISM AND 
STATE AND LOCAL OFFICIALS 
Andrew L. Seidel 
The attack on January 6 could not have happened 
without some support from those in power. President 
Trump whipped the mob into a fury and told it to march 
on the Capitol to prevent a stolen election. Eight senators 
and 138 representatives objected to certifying election 
results from Arizona or Pennsylvania, communicating to 
the mob that it had allies on the inside and a chance to 
overturn the election. One sitting senator even raised his 
fist in solidarity with the mob.1 
But there were also state and local leaders involved, not 
just in stoking the fury and lies, but in attacking the Capitol 
itself. The mob included Christian Nationalist legislators 
from all over the country. This appendix will explore 
some of those officials-it is meant to be illustrative, not 
exhaustive. Many are still in office and some are running 
for higher offices, including governor, lieutenant governor, 
and secretary of state. 
Rep. Conor Lamb beat Pennsylvania State Rep. Rick 
Saccone to win the 2018 special election in the state's 
18th Congressional District. Campaigning with Donald 
Trump Jr. by his side, Saccone said of people "on the 
left" that "many of them have a hatred for our country .. 
.. They have a hatred for God."2 Equating the Christian 
god with the United States as a nation is quintessential 
Christian Nationalism. Saccone was not on the floor of 
the House to vote against American democracy because 
he lost that election, but he was at the Capitol. Saccone 
posted a video: "We're live here in front of the US Capitol. 
Hundreds of thousands of people storming the Capitol. 
They broke down the gates. They're macing them up 
there. We're trying to run out all the evil people in there 
and all the RINOs that have betrayed our president."3 
In the description of the video as originally posted, 
Saccone wrote, "our vanguard has broken thru [sic] the 
28 barricades."4 He ended 
the video with a favorite 
rhetorical relic, left behind 
by a previous wave of 
Christian Nationalism, "Until 
next time, 'In God We Trust."' 
Saccone spent much of his 
career in the Pennsylvania 
state house sponsoring 
Christian Nationalist 
legislation, including 
resolutions declaring 2012 
the "Year of the Bible;"5 
November 2011 "King James 
Bible Heritage Month;"6 and a "National Fast Day."7 He 
added two resolutions designating "American Religious 
History Week" that repeat some popular Christian 
Nationalist talking points;8 six resolutions recognizing the 
National Day of Prayer;9 and legislation requiring public 
schools to display "In God We Trust."10 
Bills to force or encourage public schools to display 
Saccone's insurrection sign-off tag line, "In God We Trust," 
became the centerpiece of a campaign to flood state 
legislatures with Christian Nationalist bills called Project 
Blitz. Saccone proposed his bills in 2012/13 and 2015/16. 
At that point, no state had passed such a law in almost 
a decade. After Saccone's 2016 proposal, Project Blitz 
included a model bill in its 2017/18 playbook:" 'In God We 
Trust,' shall be prominently displayed in a conspicuous 
place in all public elementary and secondary school 
classrooms and libraries in this State, in all public colleges 
and universities in this State, and in each government 
building or facility in this State."11 Both of Saccone's 
proposals and the Project Blitz handbook christened the  legislation, "the National Motto Display Act."12 In short, 
Saccone has been pushing Christian Nationalism for a 
long time. 
After his insurrection video, Saccone resigned from 
a teaching post at Saint Vincent College, but then 
announced his run for Pennsylvania Lieutenant Governor 
in September of 2021.13 In his video announcement, 
Saccone, bedecked in American flags and "We the 
People" imagery, asked, "Are you thirsting for someone to 
stand up for our Constitution and our God-given rights?" 
before declaring himself, "your champion." Later, he sits 
in front of more flags, including two miniature "Appeal to 
Heaven" flags so beloved by Christian Nationalists, and 
says that he "will push back on the cancel culture social 
media trying to discredit those, like me, who profess our 
traditional values and our belief in God" and ends "God 
bless." He's running on the same Christian Nationalist 
platform he pushed through the state house. 
Pennsylvania State Senator Doug Mastriano is a front­
runner for governor in the 2022 race, having answered 
"God's calling" asking him to run.14 Mastriano and 
Saccone posed for a photo together outside the Capitol 
on January 6th.15 First elected in 2019, Mastriano humbly 
compared his political motivations to the biblical figure 
Queen Esther, who stopped the ancient Persians from 
massacring the Israelites. Mastriano reportedly stated that 
"if we get the call, we're not going to stand away from 
our Esther moment."16 The story of Esther ends with sons 
impaled on poles, 300 executions, and 75,000 enemies 
slaughtered, shading Mastriano's "Esther moment" 
with bloody violence.17 A day before the insurrection, 
Mastriano noted that Republicans "were in a death match" 
with Democrats.18 Nothing suggests that he personally 
entered the Capitol, but he was just outside the building 
and declared that he was "really praying that God will 
pour His Spirit upon Washington, D.C., like we've never 
seen before."19 He joined several public prayer calls 
after the election, including one to "pray that we'll take 
responsibility, we'll seize the power that we had given to 
us by the Constitution and as well by you providentially. 
I pray for the leaders also in the federal government, 
God, on the sixth of January that they will rise up with 
boldness."20 Again, they were all speaking the same 
language and this is very similar to Paula White's opening 
prayer at the Trump rally on January 6, asking God to 
"make your people rise up and stand strong," to overturn 
their fear, and calling for a "holy boldness."21 
Ahead of a damning New Yorker expose on his Chrisitan 
Nationalism and involvement in the insurrection, 
Mastriano threatened the reporter, Eliza Griswold.22 The 
expose correctly observes that Mastriano "embod[ies] 
a set of beliefs characterized as Christian nationalism, 
which center on the idea that God intended America 
to be a Christian nation, and which, when mingled with 
conspiracy theory and white nationalism, helped to fuel 
29 the insurrection."23 It also notes that Mastriano is likely 
involved in the New Apostolic Reformation or NAR, whose 
"members believe that God speaks to them directly, 
and that they have been tasked with battling real-world 
demons who control global leaders." 
A veteran, Mastriano believed he was a divine soldier 
on the frontlines between the Chiristian West and the 
atheistic, communisitic Soviets. This thinking has since 
morphed into what he has called a new religious conflict 
against radicial lslam.24 On Twitter, Mastraino spread 
a debunked conspiracy theory that Rep. llhan Omar 
directed fellow Muslims to throw a five-year-old child off a 
balcony, and has shared graphics that read "Islam wants 
to kill gay rights, Judaism, Christianity and pacifism."25 
Mastriano has pushed the Big Lie and, not coincidentally, 
appears to have received his Ph.D. for a thesis that has 
since been found to be plagued with errors and false 
citations.26 A formal review of his work determined 
that many of his citations are "completely false and 
do not support his claims whatsoever" and identified 
dozens of footnotes "with no apparent relation to their 
corresponding book passages."27 The entire Christian 
Nationalist identity is based on historical disinformation, 
as I detail in The Founding Myth,28 so this is not surprising. 
Mastriano spoke at the Dec. 12 Jericho March event 
in DC, the "Let the Church ROAR" rally. Eric Metaxas 
introduced him to the crowd as a "patriot" and recounted 
how Trump called Mastriano, while two large wooden 
crucifixes were paraded through the audience, one visible 
as Mastriano began to speak.29 Mastriano addressed the 
"God-fearing Americans, flag-waving Americans" and 
quoted First Corinthians. He invoked 1776, the Battle of 
Gettysburg, Ben Franklin, and said: 
America is here. United States of America. We stand 
together. As Franklin said, "if we don't hang together, 
we're gonna hang separately." We're going to hang 
together. Huh? What do you say? There ain't nothing 
the Left can tell me, or the media or those lying 
snakes in the media-they're not going to dissuade 
us. We're Americans! We walk as free people. We do 
not walk in bondage. We bow to no man. We bow to 
no ideology. We serve God with our hearts. "Greater 
is he that is in us and he that's in the world," right? [1 
John 4:4] You know? Ephesians 3:20 says what? "He 
can do more than you can imagine or think." Do you 
believe it? Do you know it? I know it's true.30 
After that sermon, Mastriano talked about how George 
Washington was failing until he "appealed to Heaven," 
again, invoking the message on the flag that was seen 
so widely on January 6th and in the lead-up, the flag 
Christian Nationalist preachers build empires around, 
the flag other Christian Nationalist legislators like 
Jason Rapert of Arkansas hold so dear. Mastriano said 
that "George Washington appealed to Heaven. God  intervened on Christmas Day, he drove the Hessians out 
of Trenton .... This is our day. This is our hour. Let's stand 
together. If we don't hang together, we'll hang separately. 
God bless you guys and God bless America."31 
The "Appeal to Heaven" rhetoric and flag are an integral 
part of Christian Nationalism, as seen in the other two 
appendices. Mastriano frequently appears in videos with 
the Appeal to Heaven flag behind him, including in the 
video in which he threatens the New Yorker journalist.32 
The Appeal to Heaven flag was common on January 6; 
one widely-circulated image shows it streaming above 
the massive Jesus 2020 banner33 precisely because 
it has long been popular with Christian Nationalists.34 
For instance, Arkansas State Senator Jason Rapert 
is a preacher, legislator, and Christian Nationalist who 
started a group for "Christian lawmakers" alongside his 
personal ministry and is responsible for putting up a Ten 
Commandments monument at the Arkansas Capitol and 
"In God We Trust" in every public school classroom, like 
Saccone. Rapert formed the "Appeal to Heaven Caucus . 
.. to honor the Lord by networking elected officials who 
are believers in Jesus Christ, who regularly attend and 
display a commitment to an evangelical, Gospel-centered 
church and who will commit to live and govern based on 
biblical, constitutional and Federalist principles."35 He also 
posed with that same flag in front of the U.S. Supreme 
Court on a previous trip to DC and regularly has people 
hold it on stage when he preaches.36 During the attack 
itself, the flag was widely visible. One of those Appeal 
to Heaven flags was on a pitchfork for a flagpole.37 This 
flag's message was important to the attackers. In an 
interview, one of the attackers who made it to the Senate 
floor and was part of the infamous prayer, after discussing 
the prayer in an interview, singled out the flag: "We appeal 
to heaven because as individuals we're powerless .... "38 
(See also, Appendix B.) 
Rapert condemned the violence on January 6th, but 
seemed more interested in whataboutery and tying 
the violence to "months of destruction in our nation at 
the hands of Antifa and BLM Leftists."39 And before he 
condemned them, he stoked the fires, again in Christian 
Nationalist terms. In an angry, aggressive live video on 
Dec. 27, 2020, Rapert called on his supporters to "stand 
up" and to go to DC for the January 6th rally.40 The 
description of the video reads: "LIVE NOW: Nashville 
bombing. Stop the steal. January 6th. Stand up for God 
and Country." Rapert began by discussing the bombing 
in Nashville, the need "to elect good godly people in 
this nation if we're to have a good, godly nation," and 
transitioned immediately into the Big Lie: "the level of 
corruption and the level of stealing that I think has been 
going on in our electoral system."41 Ra pert didn't just 
preach the Big Lie, he went further: "I'm asking all of you 
to not ignore it [the Big Lie] either. I'm asking all of you 
to stand up for the country. I'm asking you to pray for the 
nation in a way that you've never prayed before. But I'm 
30 asking you to also shut down the stupidity that you're 
often being fed through the mass media. I want you to 
pay attention, think about the founding of this country, 
and what our Founding Fathers stood for and look at 
what's happened in the last 50 years."42 He fearmongered 
about communism and said our "darkest days" are ahead 
if "Joe Biden and Commie Harris" get into the White 
House.43 "The only thing" standing between the results of 
the free and fair election was "January 6th."44 He tells the 
audience, "Friends, it's time for you to stand up."45 He said 
the election was "stolen" and urged viewers to "Stand 
up and fight back!"46 The entire 20-minute video is put 
in Christain Nationalist terms: "There's a lot of American 
citizens out here that are absolutely tired of what we're 
seeing. We're tired of you undermining our country. We're 
tired of you belittling our faith. We're tired of you trying 
to say that people that believe in the Bible and God 
and country are bigots-and we're not putting up with 
it anymore .... We need more people to serve because 
January the 6th ... they're going to certify the electoral 
college votes."47 
For much of his talk, Ra pert has plausible deniability-he 
could have been talking to elected officials. He skillfully 
navigates the line of stochastic terrorism, but at the end, 
he stumps for the rally. First he tells people to "Get prayed 
up, stocked up, and be speaking up for the truth .... 
Never give in and never bow down to the ungodly or to 
the unrighteous" and that they must take action: "Friends, 
now's the time to think about who you are. You don't have 
the luxury to just pretend that these matters take care 
of themselves ... So January the 6th I hear that literally 
who knows how many people are going to descend on 
Washington DC. Our president has put out a message for 
people to go to Washington DC."48 Ra pert waffled about 
attending, "But I'm going to be watching. And I'm going to 
be behind everything that's going on to show the truth in 
the country. I'm going to be looking for the truth to come 
out. ... It's time to stand up for God and Country."49 He 
concludes: "Never bow down to the ungodly."50 
Ra pert may not have been at the Capitol in person, but 
he was certainly at the Capitol in spirit. Like Saccone and 
Mastriano, Rapert is running for higher office, Arkansas 
Lieutenant Governor (Trump's former press secretary 
Sarah Huckabee Sanders, leads the gubernatorial pack 
at the moment). 
Gospel singer, preacher, and Tenn. State Rep. Terri 
Lynn Weaver51 bragged about being "in the thick of it" 
on January 6 and said the mob was "a heck of a lot of 
patriots."52 On Twitter she called it an "epic and historic 
day gathering with fellow Patriots from all over the 
nation"53 and on Facebook, she blamed the lawlessness 
and violence on Antifa, a baseless lie she has since 
deleted.54 It's unclear whether or not she entered the 
Capitol, though the "thick of it" suggests an answer.  Weaver is a typical Christian Nationalist, sponsoring 
Project Blitz bills, such as legislation to make the Bible the 
state book in 202055 and 2021,56 and to put "In God We 
Trust" on state license plates.57 Weaver regularly tweets 
that America is "one nation under God"58 and posts other 
Christian Nationalist fare, such as a photo of a gun, the 
Constitution, and a Bible resting on the American flag.59 
Weaver once sang a Battle Hymn of the Republic ("Our 
God is marching on)" introduction to God Bless America 
at the Republican Party's annual Statemen's Dinner.60 
Perhaps most infamously, she "posted a Halloween 
picture of herself with her pastor posing in black face 
as Aunt Jemima. For a caption, Weaver wrote 'Aunt 
Jemima, you is so sweet."'61 After the election, she used 
her platform to stoke fear and activism, including telling 
people to attend a #StopTheSteal rally: "If this scandalous 
criminal act continues it will be the end of free elections 
and death to this Republic."62 
When running for office, West Virginia delegate Derrick 
Evans wanted everyone "to know that I'm pro-life, pro­
Second Amendment, and I'm going to fight for Christian 
values!" He preached "God-Given rights," told voters 
that "[a]cross this country our Christian values have 
been under attack" and promised, "Once elected, I will 
spend every day fighting for Christian values!"63 Evans 
livestreamed the video of himself breaching the Capitol 
while chanting "Trump" and made it easy on investigators 
by shouting "We're in, we're in! Derrick Evans is in the 
Capitol!"64 Evans fistbumped a Capitol police officer and 
told him, "God bless you." He resigned from the West 
Virginia legislature, and was arrested and charged.65 
Another West Virginia legislator, Eric Barber, wore tactical 
gear and a military helmet when he invaded the Capitol.66 
Barber had been a City Councillor in Parkersburg, a 
body the Freedom From Religion Foundation sued 
for reciting the Lord's Prayer at every meeting. FFRF 
singled Barber out for his aggressive conduct against 
those who didn't participate in the prayers, writing in the 
2018 lawsuit: "At least one member of the City Council 
has been openly hostile to nonparticipants, the lawsuit 
charges. Councilman Eric Barber glared at attendees 
who sat during the prayer at a meeting. At the end of that 
prayer, Barber positioned himself near his microphone, 
pressed the button, and shouted, 'Amen.'"67 Barber left the 
Democratic party shortly after Trump became president 
over what he called the party's "anti-Christian rhetoric."68 
When the Senate confirmed Brett Kavanaugh he wrote 
on Facebook, "Better get your coat-hangers ready 
liberals."69 He was arrested and charged for his role in the 
Capitol attack.7° 
Otero County, New Mexico Commissioner Couy Griffin 
rode his horse through town in March 2020 and said, 
"We're just blessed to still be able to come out and fly the 
American flag, ride for our country, ride for our president 
and, most importantly, ride for our Lord and Savior Jesus 
31 Christ,"71 adding to these thoughts later at an anti­
public health rally in May, "the only good Democrat 
is a dead Democrat."72 
Griffin appeared in Appendix B, as the founder of 
Cowboys for Trump, who prayed over the crowd: 
The founder of Cowboys for Trump prayed through 
a bullhorn above the crowd: "Let us pray Second 
Chronicles, chapter 7, verse 14, over our nation. Let us 
pray. Our Father says that if we will repent and pray, 
he will hear our prayers." The crowd chanted, "Fight 
for Trump! Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump!," unfurled 
a flag with "An Appeal to Heaven" on it, and held a 
"Trump 2020" flag on a pole topped with a white 
Christian cross alongside another flagpole with a sign 
that said, "Jesus, I trust in you."73 
Griffin even seems to point at the Appeal to Heaven flag 
holders and give them a thumbs up. 
Griffin was later arrested for his role in the attack, which 
he spoke about at the commission meeting immediately 
following the attack, on January 14.74 First, he opened the 
meeting with an official prayer, addressing or mentioning 
his god 30 times in 85 seconds. He "pray[ed] for our 
nation ... a nation with so much unrest," prayed for 
"unity," and prayed for "victory, which we already have in 
Jesus Christ," ending his prayer "In Jesus name, Amen."75 
The mentions of unity and unrest were somewhat bold 
given his presence at the Capitol days earlier and his 
comments later in the meeting. 
At the end of the meeting he spoke for 17 minutes, 
including chastising the outgoing Vice President because 
"Pence certified a fraudulent election."76 He explained that 
he went to D.C. to tell people to kneel to Jesus: 
I went there [D.C.] to support my president and stand 
up for my country .... Gary shared with me a vision 
that one of the boys from their church had had about 
somebody leading like a million people in prayer and 
that person was to ask everyone to take a knee in 
which to declare Jesus Christ as Lord in which the 
Bible says "every knee shall bow and every tongue 
shall confess." So that was passed on to me and that's 
what I felt the call was.  He recounted the prayer he delivered on the steps of the 
Capitol while the crowd chanted "fight for Trump!" The 
prayer was "one of the greatest honors of my life," said 
Griffin, and the attack "was the most historic sight that 
I've ever seen in my life .... I saw soccer moms crawling 
up the side of the Capitol .... " He lionized the death of 
Ashli Babbitt, calling it "an execution" by "a Black D.C. 
police officer."77 He said that he was going to return to 
DC because of the Big Lie: "This election was fraudulent. 
On every level it was a fraud. It was stolen by Communist 
China. The evidence is irrefutable without a doubt. It's not 
an opinion, it's video evidence."78 Then he fearmongered 
about guns and masks, before listing the guns he 
was taking to DC before the inauguration but after 
the insurrection. 
Griffin did return to DC, and he was arrested and charged. 
After his release, he spoke at the Feb. 11 commission 
meeting for another 20 minutes.79 He refused to resign 
from the county commission, despite mounting pressure, 
promising instead "to prayerfully hold the line on a 
constitutional side, to fight for individual rights, individual 
liberties and individual freedoms which I believe that 
by God's grace I have been able to do to date .... "80 He 
then waxed on about taking his oath of office on a Bible, 
the same Bible he used as pastor at New Heart Cowboy 
Church and explained his religion informed personal 
governing philosophy, "That's the platform that I stand 
on and I stand before God and I live in fear of God that 
my oath is my bond and my bond is to the people of 
Otero County."81 
Griffin later told reporters, "I went to pray with people, you 
know, and I went to lead people in prayer,"82 but on his 
Facebook page he warned of another rally at the Capitol: 
"it's gonna be a sad day, there's gonna be blood running 
out of that building."83 
This is a Christian Nationalist preacher and public official 
motivated by prayer and the Bible to bring an arsenal to 
DC after the insurrection and before the inauguration, 
threatening "blood running out of" the Capitol. 
Virginia State Senator Amanda Chase spoke at the 
Jan. 6 rally but left before the violence. Chase later 
called the insurrectionists "patriots" and was censured 
by the Virginia legislature, including members of her 
own party.84 In the past, Chase has "worn a holstered 
handgun on the Senate floor, marched through downtown 
Richmond alongside far-right 'boogaloo boys' with an 
AR-15 strapped across her chest, and called on Trump to 
hold on to power after November's election by declaring 
martial law."85 Chase lost a primary bid for governor and 
is a Christian Nationalist. She hosted a weekly radio 
show on which she parroted Mike Pence's saying that 
he's "a Christian first, a conservative second, and then 
a Republican."86 In one episode, she explains that she 
has a private, personal Facebook page for family photos, 
32 and that she also had a "personal Senator Amanda 
Chase page," where she posted a "scripture" or "psalm" 
every day.87 She argued that's okay because she's not 
establishing a national religion and she's "not Congress, 
if you want to get literal." She adds, "The term separation 
of church and state is not even in the First Amendment, 
and therefore can't be violated" and quotes RC Sproul (a 
preacher and one of the architects of the 1978 Chicago 
Statement on Biblical lnerrancy) calling this separation a 
"mythological concept."88 On another episode, she hosted 
Bishop Leon Benjamin, who appears in Appendix A as a 
speaker at the Jericho March Let the Church ROAR event 
on Dec. 12, 2020. In that episode, Chase claims there was 
a "move to take God out of our public schools" and wants 
"to put God back in our public schools," and attacks the 
constitutional separation of state and church, too.89 
Michigan State Rep. Matt Maddock and his wife, 
Michigan Republican Party co-chair Meshawn Maddock, 
spoke at a January 5 rally and attended the January 6 
rally, after organizing busloads of Trump supporters to 
travel from Michigan to help stop the election.90 The 
"couple radicalized the state's GOP and emboldened 
insurrectionists."91 Shortly after the election, from her 
"CoChairMeshawn" account, Maddock tweeted, "This is 
not where I belong! Take this world and give me Jesus."92 
In June, Michigan activists demanded a forensic audit 
of their state election results at a prayer rally: "Boxes 
containing the affidavits, some inscribed with Biblical 
verses, were blessed with prayer and anointed in oil 
on the steps of Michigan's Capitol."93 They prayed, 
repeatedly, sang hymns, and one speaker explained, 
"This is a spiritual battle. If you wonder why we're doing 
this at a prayer rally, that's because we recognize that this 
is a spiritual battle," then compared the 2020 election 
with the persecution of Jesus Christ as portrayed in 
the Bible.94 
Alaska State Representative David Eastman, who 
represents Sarah Palin's hometown of Wassil a, was in 
D.C. on January 6. Before that, he was spreading the 
Big Lie.95 Eastman is a member of the Oath Keepers.96 
See Appendix A for the Oath Keepers ties to the Jericho 
March. On his blog, Eastman wrote "It's not PC to believe 
in truth. It's not PC to believe what's in the Bible. And 
even if it was, it's certainly not PC to admit to it in public. 
Silence is what is demanded. And if you aren't silent, 
you will be attacked .... "97 Eastman attended Mike 
Lindell's "cybersecurity" rally in August 2021.98 His views 
are so extreme he was the first Alaka Representative to 
be censured and a few years later was stripped of his 
committee assignments and put on probation by his 
own party.99 
As far as I can tell, David Eastman is not related to John 
Eastman, the architect of the insurrection legal memo. 
However, David Eastman does claim to have been an 
Abraham Lincoln Fellow at the Claremont Institute,  which John Eastman was affiliated with. (John Eastman, 
incidentally also has some strong Christian Nationalist 
leanings, even having written "One Nation Under God: 
The Pledge of Allegiance Under Attack" a book-cum­
amicus brief published by the Claremont Institute.) David 
Eastman also has a masters degree in apologetics from 
Biol a University. He also apparently studied at the Oxford 
Study Centre in Oxford, which appears designed to trick 
people into thinking it's affiliated with the renowned 
university but is actually part of Summit Ministries, a 
ministry based in Manitou Springs, Colorado, that appears 
to espouse Christian Nationalism.100 
Citing personal knowledge and Eastman quoting 
Hitler and posing for photos with Hitler quotes, one of 
Eastman's former classmates didn't mince words: "David 
Eastman, my classmate, is a white supremacist and a 
neo-fascist."101 Those ideologies go hand-in-glove with 
Christian Nationalism. 
Eastman isn't the only January 6 Christian Nationalist to 
quote Hitler. US Congresswoman Mary Miller, who took 
office on Jan. 3, spoke to Moms for America on January 
5th about "the importance of faith and guarding our youth 
from destructive influences," and favorably quoted Adolf 
Hitler: "Hitler was right on one thing. He said, 'whoever 
has the youth has the future."'102 
Miller objected to the electoral certifications from Arizona 
and Pennsylvania in the House. Miller teaches Sunday 
School and Vacation Bible School at Oakland Christian 
Church.103 In a candidate questionnaire she said she was 
"unabashedly Chstian" and claimed "Our nation was 
founded as a Christian nation," which is a defining belief 
of Christian Nationalism, and she continued, "most of our 
leaders throughout history have in one way or another 
expressed belief in God .... We need leaders who have 
humbled themselves before God and strive to live their 
Christian faith in their daily lives."104 
Miller's husband, Illinois State Rep. Chris Miller, 
livestreamed a video from the Trump rally on Jan 6, the 
Washington Monument behind him and Katrina Pierson 
speaking over him on the stage. He said, "I think it's 
important to know that we're engaged in a great cultural 
war to see which worldview will survive, whether we 
will remain a free people under free-market capitalism 
or whether they will put us in the tyranny of socialism, 
communism and the dangerous Democrat terrorists that 
are trying to destroy our country."105 He has questionable 
ties to the Three Percenters militia group.106 He denies 
entering the Capitol.107 
Arizona State Representative Mark Finchem spoke on 
stage at the January 5 "rally for Revival" in Freedom Plaza 
(see Appendix A) and was introduced by Ali Alexander 
of Stop the Steal.108 Finchem began by telling the crowd, 
"This is God washing the stench off of Washington, 
33 D.C. ... America is watching the People of God."109 He 
repeated the Big Lie and then called for a "forensic audit" 
of every election. He's now running for Arizona Secretary 
of State and would control and oversee Arizona's 
elections. I understand that this Committee is already 
investigating his ties to Alexander, Biggs, and others who 
played central roles in fomenting the Big Lie and 
this attack. 
Finchem was on the grounds and close to the Capitol 
during the attack.110 Some reports suggest that Finchem 
once "recruited" for the Oath Keepers.111 On December 
11, he tweeted to Ali Alexander that he planned to be at 
the Jericho March and spoke to the crowd.112 He was only 
given a couple minutes on stage at the Let the Church 
ROAR event and he told the audience: "Ladies and 
Gentlemen, you have one job, and that is to get on your 
knees and pray that Satan's minions would be bound up, 
that the fraud would be found out .... "113 
Finchem's state office is covered in Christian Nationalist 
imagery, including an "In God We Trust" poster, a plaque 
with at least nine Christian crosses, and what appears 
to be a sculpture of a hand holding a shofar.114 When 
State Rep. Athena Salman delivered a secular invocation 
in 2017, Finchem stood up and said a prayer to Jesus 
to replace it. He did something similar to a secular 
invocation in 2016, explaining that there needs to be a 
time for prayer, for "lifting this body up to the God that 
we speak of when we say our Pledge of Allegiance" 
and "we are 'One nation under God.' This republican 
form of government came out of the Book of Exodus. It 
is a matter of fact."115 At the Reawaken America tour in 
January 2022, Finchem gave a talk entitled, "Election 
Integrity and God's Command to Choose Wisely," quoted 
Exodus, and tied "election integrity" to the Bible.116 He 
also trotted out some favorite Christian Nationalist quotes. 
Mike Flynn, Roger Stone, Greg Locke, Lance Wallnau, 
Mike Lindell, Brian Gibson, Mark Burns, and some of 
the other regulars from Appendix A appeared as well, 
and, like the Jericho March Let the Church ROAR event, 
they blew shofars to open the rally. Finchem is a Christian 
Nationalist. 
This appendix is not meant to be exhaustive. Other state 
and local officials attended the rally, including Arizona 
State Rep. Anthony Kern, Missouri State Rep. Justin Hill, 
Georgia State Rep. Vernon Jones and Virginia Del. Dave 
La Rock, among others. The point is to show that Christian 
Nationalism is inextricably linked to the insurrection and 
its adjacent activism. Christian Nationalism provided the 
permission structure necessary for Americans to attack 
their own government and free and fair election.  Appendix A 
1. For instance, a September 2020 rally on the National Mall 
called "The Return" included many of the same people mentioned 
in the previous section and preaching the same messages that we'll 
see later in this report. See Peter Montgomery, Trump Embraces 
Christion Nationalists and Friends Gathered in DC to Denounce 
Choice, LGBTQ Equality, Church-State Separation, Right Wing 
Watch, Sept. 28, 2020, www.rightwingwatch.org/post/trump-
emb races-ch ristia n-nation a I ists-a nd-frie nds-gathe red-in-dc-to-
deno u nce-cho ice-lg btg-eg ua I ity-ch u rch-state-se pa ration/. 
It also included bigger names, such as Pat Robertson, Kevin 
Sorbo, Cindy Jacobs, and Ralph Drollinger (who teaches the 
Capitol Ministries Bible Study for members of Congress and 
which infamously helped the Trump administration justify the child 
separation policy at the border by citing Romans 13). See Andrew L. 
Seidel, The White House Bible Study group that influenced Trump's 
family separation policy, ThinkProgress, June 19, 2018, 
https:/ /archive.th in kprog ress.org/wh ite-h ouse-bib le-study-group­
tru mp-child-separation-pol icy-2 4d e236c482 4/. 
For more on the various Bible studies run by Capitol Ministries, see 
Valerie Strauss, Top Trump administration officials flock to weekly 
Bible study classes at White House, The Washington Post. Aug. 1, 
2017. Available online at https://wapo.st/3Ev25vf . 
2. Right Wing Watch (@RightWingWatch), Twitter, Nov. 
4, 2020, 9:24 p.m., https://twitter.com/RightWingWatch/ 
status/1324175651515949056 ; 
Wyatte Grantham-Philips, Pastor Paulo White calls on angels from 
Africa and South America to bring Trump victory, USA Today, 
Nov. 5, 2020, www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2020/11/05/ 
pa u la-wh ite-tru mps-sp iritua I-a dviser-africa n-south-a me rica n-
a ng els/6173576002/ . 
3. Peter Montgomery, White House Aide Paulo White Calls on 
God and His Followers to Fight to Keep Trump in Office, Right Wing 
Watch, Nov. 6, 2020, www.rightwingwatch.org/post/white-house-
a ide-pa u la-white-ca I ls-on-god-and-his-fol lowers-to-fig ht-to-keep­
tru mp-in-office/ . 
One of the other preachers connected to White's ministries, Todd 
Lamphere, added with the violent hint, "Jesus Christ was a warrior. 
He's a fighter. You need to understand something: The Christian 
life is a battleground and not a playground." Lamphere had actively 
used the public school system in efforts to convert other people's 
children to his religion. See Katherine Stewart, The Movement to 
Put a Church in Every School ls Growing, The Nation, Jan. 14, 2015, 
www.thenation.com/article/archive/movement-put-church-every­
school-growing/ ; 
34 WFTV 9, Orange County high school under fire over student 
athletes praying, Aug. 28, 2014, www.wftv.com/news/local/orange­
cou nty-h ig h-sch oo I-u nd er-fi re-over-stude nt-/10706307 4/; 
Brownie Marie, High school football team fires its chaplain ofter 
atheist complaints, Aug. 29, 2014, 
www.ch ristia ntod av.com/a rticle/h ig h-school-footba I I-team-fires-its­
cha plain-after-atheist-com pla ints/40113.htm . 
4. Frederick Clarkson, Beneath the Wacky' Paulo White Video is 
a Dork and Deeply Undemocratic World Propping up the President, 
Nov. 17, 2020, https://religiondispatches.org/beneath-the-wacky-
pa u la-wh ite-vid eo-is-a-d ark-and-deep ly-u nd emocratic-wo rl d-
propp ing-u p-the-p resident/. 
5. Peter Montgomery, Lance Wollnou Claims 'Fighting Trump Is 
Fighting God,' Soys While Trump Is Sick God's Angel Will Wreck' His 
Enemies, Right Wing Watch, Oct. 5, 2020, 
www.rightwingwatch.org/post/la n ce-wa 11 na u-cla ims-fig hti ng-tru mp­
%e2%80%8b is-fig hting-god-says-wh ile-tru mp-%e2%80%8 bis-sick­
gods-a nge I-wil I-wreck-h is-enemies/ . 
6. Id. 
7. C-SPAN, Campaign 2020 Rally for President Trump in 
Washington, D.C., Nov. 14, 2020, at 5:45, www.c-span.org/ 
video/? 4 78128-1/ra I ly-pres ident-tru mp-wash ington-dc. 
8. Jon Campbell, Govin Mcinnes Wonts You to Know He's Totally 
Not a White Supremacist, The Village Voice, Feb. 15, 2017, 
www.villagevoice.com/2017/02/15/gavin-mcinnes-wants-you-to-
kn ow-h es-tota I ly-not-a-wh ite-su premacist/ . 
9. Caroline Brehman, Million MAGA Morch (1229622854), Getty 
Images, Nov. 14, 2020, www.gettyimages.com/detail/news-photo/ 
trump-supporters-pray-at-freedom-plaza-during-the-million-news-ph 
oto/12296228547adppopup=true ; 
Bloomberg, Demonstrators Participate In "Million MAGA Morch," 
(1229622626), Getty Images, Nov. 14, 2020, www.gettyimages.com/ 
detail/news-photo/demonstrators-pray-during-the-million-maga-
ma rch-at-freedo m-news-photo/122 962262 67a d p pop u p=true. 
10. Andrew Caballero-Reynolds, US-POLITICS-VOTE-RALLY 
(1229622869), Getty Images, Nov. 14, 2020, www.gettyimages.com/ 
detail/news-photo/sup porte r-of-u s-president-d ona ld-tru mp-prays­
nea r-a-Iine-of-news-photo/12296228697a d p popu p=true. 
11. Associated Press, Thousands Rally Behind Trump, Insisting He 
Won Race He Lost, Nov. 14, 2020, 
www.usnews.com/news/po I itics/a rticles/2 020-11-14/tru mp-thrills­
p rotesting-su pporters-with-moto rca de-drive-by.  12. The Austin-American Statesman, PHOTOS: Trump Supporters 
rally in DC to protest election results, Nov. 14, 2020, 
www.statesman.com/photogallery/TX/20201114/ 
PHOTOGALLERY /111409990/PH/1 . 
13. The Austin-American Statesman, PHOTOS: Trump Supporters 
rally in DC to protest election results, Nov. 14, 2020, Photos 10, 16, 
www.statesman.com/photogallery/TX/20201114/ 
PHOTOGALLERY /111409990/PH/1 . 
14. Id., photo 12; NurPhoto, Trump Supporters, For-right Extremists 
Rally In Washington DC For 'Million MAGA Morch,' (1229648207), 
Getty Images, Nov. 14, 2020, www.gettyimages.com/detail/news­
photo/the-mil I ion-ma ga-ma rch-saw-10-15-000-tru m p-su ppo rters­
news-photo/122964820T?a d ppopu p=irue. 
15. Andrew Caballero-Reynolds, US-politics-vote-RALLY, 
(1229619756), Getty Images, Nov. 14, 2020, 
www.gettyimages.com/detail/news-photo/thousands-of-supporters­
of-president-tru mp-march-a lo ng-news-photo/122 9648 570; 
Oliver Douliery, US-politics-vote-RALLY, (1229619890), Getty 
Images, Nov. 14, 2020, www.gettyimages.com/detail/news-photo/ 
su ppo rters-of-u s-pres ident-d ona ld-tru m p-ra I ly-at-the-us-news­
photo/122 96198907ad ppo pu p=true. 
16. Andrew Caballero-Reynolds, US-politics-vote-RALLY, 
(1229619756), Getty Images, Nov. 14, 2020, www.gettyimages.com/ 
detail/news-photo/sup porters-of-us-president-don a ld-tru m p-ra I ly-in­
wash in gto n-n ews-p hoto/122 96197567ad ppo pu p=iru e. 
17. Video at https://d2amdhggrspxsl.cloudfront.net/s3vids/ 
RizVuHc6OOEX.converted.mp4 at 0:36. 
18. NurPhoto, Million MAGA Morch, (1229635422), GETTY 
IMAGES, Nov. 14, 2020, www.gettyimages.com/detail/news-photo/ 
thou sa n ds-of-tru mp-su pporte rs-gathered-in-wash ington-d-c-o n­
news-p hoto/122 96354227a d ppopu p=irue; 
NurPhoto, Million MAGA Morch, (1229635522), Getty Images, Nov. 
14, 2020, www.gettyimages.com/detail/news-photo/thousands­
of-tru mp-su pporte rs-gathered-in-wash ington-d-c-o n-news­
photo/122 96355227ad ppo pu p=tru e. 
19. Andrew Caballero-Reynolds, US-politics-vote-RALLY, 
(1229618323), Getty Images, Nov. 14, 2020, www.gettyimages.com/ 
detail/news-photo/sup porters-of-us-president-don a ld-tru m p-ra I ly-at­
the-us-n ews-photo/12296183237a d p pop u p=true. 
20. Ta sos Katopodis, Pro-Trump Right Wing Groups Hold "Million 
MAGA Morch" To Protest Election Results, (1285674626), Getty 
Images, Nov. 14, 2020, www.gettyimages.com/detail/news-photo/ 
people-participate-in-the-million-maga-march-from-freedom-news­
photo/128 567 462 67a d p pop u p=true; 
The Washington Post, Million MAGA Morch, (1230076896), Getty 
Images, Nov. 14, 2020, www.gettyimages.com/detail/news-photo/ 
pol ice-b lock-off-su ppo rte rs-of-pres ident-tru mp-from-others-news­
photo/1230076896 ; 
Anadolu Agency, 'Million MAGA Morch' for Trump in Washington DC, 
(1229619701), Getty Images, Nov. 14, 2020, www.gettyimages.com/ 
deta il/news-photo/pro-tru m p-protesters-g athered-d u ring-the-mil I ion­
m a ga-ma rch-news-photo/122 961970Pa d ppo pu p=iru e. 
21. NurPhoto, Trump Supporters, For-right Extremists Rally In 
Washington DC For 'Million MAGA Morch,' (1229648124), Getty 
Images, Nov. 14, 2020, www.gettyimages.com/detail/news-photo/ 
the-mil I ion-mag a-ma rch-saw-10-15-000-tru mp-supporters-news­
photo/122 964812 4 ?ad p pop u p=true. 
35 22. Andrew Lichtenstein, Trump supporters rally in Washington to 
declare the election results a fraud, (1285832435), Getty Images, 
Nov. 14, 2020, www.gettyimages.com/detail/news-photo/tens-of­
thousands-of-trump-supporters-rally-and-march-to-news-photo/1285 
8324357adppopup=irue . 
23. Video at https://d2amdhggrspxsl.cloudfront.net/s3vids/ 
yS8nnxnXxf74.converted.mp4 at 0:25. 
24. Video at https://d2amdhggrspxsl.cloudfront.net/s3vids/ 
EgcEpgYdwfoe.converted.mp4 at 0:09. 
25. Picture alliance, After the presidential election in the USA 
-Trump supporters, (1229618214), Getty Images, Nov. 14, 2020, 
www.gettyimages.com/detail/news-photo/november-2020-us­
washington-d-c-a-supporter-of-us-president-news-photo/122961821 
47adppopup=irue . 
26. Video at https://d2amdhggrspxsl.cloudfront.net/s3vids/ 
Mij3YHwD8tOt.converted.mp4 He holds this sign while Forgiato 
Blow sings his song, "4 More Years,'' which includes the lines: 'That 
flag flyin' means that I'm free, you ain't gonna burn that shit, God 
bless America, God bless us all." 
27. Elesha Coffman, What is the origin of the Christion fish symbol? 
First published by Christian History, available online at Christianity 
Today, https:/ /www.ch ristia n itytoday.co m/h istory/2 008/a u gust/what­
is-orig in-of-ch ri stia n-fish-sym bol. htm I. 
28. Marissa Lang, Michael Miller, Peter Jamison, Justin Moyer, 
Clarence Williams, Peter Hermann, Frederick Kunkle, and John 
Wood row Cox, After thousands of Trump supporters rally in D. C., 
violence erupts when night falls, The Washington Post, Nov. 15, 
202 0, www.washingtonpost.com/dc-md-va/2 02 0/11/14/m ii I ion-ma ga­
ma rch-dc-protests/ . 
29. Id. 
30. "Then they devoted to destruction by the edge of the sword all 
in the city, both men and women, young and old, oxen, sheep, and 
donkeys ... They burned down the city, and everything in it; only the 
silver and gold, and the vessels of bronze and iron, they put into the 
treasury of the house of the Lord." Joshua 6:21, 24 NRSV. 
31. Weaver was previously forced to withdraw from a position that 
Trump nominated him to because he lied about his qualifications. 
See Emily Baumgaertner, Trump's Pick to Lead Indian Health 
Service Withdraws Nomination, Feb. 22, 2018, 
www.nytimes.com/2018/02/22/us/politics/indian-health-service­
robert-weaver.html . 
32. Alex Joseph, Jericho Morch Co-Founder: 'God Told Me to Let 
the Church Roar,' NTD, Dec. 13, 2020, www.ntd.com/jericho-march­
co-founder-god-told-me-to-let-the-church-roar 539706.html . 
33. Alex Joseph, Jericho Morch Co-Founder: 'God Told Me to 
Let the Church Roar,' NTD, Dec. 13, 2020, www.ntd.com/jericho-
ma rch-co-fou n der-g od-to Id-me-to-let-the-church-roar 539706.htm I. 
As Weaver gives the interview, Ali Alexander, the Stop the Steal 
organizer, walks through the background at 3:40 after delivering 
his speech from the stage. See also Kristin Ko bes Du Mez, Jesus 
and John Wayne: How White Evangelicals Corrupted a Faith and 
Fractured a Notion. New York: Liveright, 2020.  34. Grossu is an anti-reproductive rights activist who worked 
at the Family Research Council and then as an outreach adviser 
for the Department of Health and Human Services in the Trump 
administration. See Tony Perkins, FRC's Arina Grossu Spoke at New 
Maryland Abortion Location Operated by Controversial Late-Term 
Abortionist LeRoy Carhart, Family Research Council, Oct. 17, 2017, 
www.frc.org/p ressrelease/frcs-a rina-g rossu-spoke-at-new-ma ryla nd­
a bo rti o n-1 ocati on-ope rated-by-co ntrove rs i a 1-1 ate-term-abortionist-
1 e roy-ca rh a rt. 
35. NTD Newsroom, Jericho March Co-founder: 'All of This Is 
Gonna Be Turned Around by God's Power,' NTD, Dec. 13, 2020, 
www.ntd.com/jericho-ma rch-co-fou n der-a I I-of-th is-is-gonna-be­
tu rned-a round-by-gods-power 539714.html . 
36. For instance, on January 10, Brandon Burden preached 
'Take down the walls of Jericho. The Lord says your Jericho is 
Washington, D.C. That's your fortified city," at the KingdomLife 
Church in Frisco, Texas. The church's "Our Mission" page read, 
"We Are An Army. Second, we are the army of God. As an army, 
we are committed to training and equipping the generations for 
their life assignments." https://archive.is/RRCfK . Burden is a former 
city council candidate and the lead pastor at the Kingdom Life 
Church. In this same sermon he preached violence. "We are locked 
and loaded at the Burden house," he told parishioners, and he 
then explained the "castle doctrine" and the legalities of shooting 
people. He said that God had issued an "executive order" to keep 
Trump in office for eight years, he spoke in tongues, and a woman 
waved an American flag in front of the altar. See Brandi Addison, 
Frisco pastor urges followers to keep guns loaded, stock up on 
food and water before Biden inauguration, The Dallas Morning 
News, Jan. 13, 2021, www.dallasnews.com/news/politics/2021/01/14/ 
frisco-pa stor-u rges-fol lowers-to-he Ip-trump-stay-in-office-and-keep­
g u ns-loa ded-before-bide n-ina ug u ration/?o utp utT ype=a mp& 
twitter impression=true ; 
Mike Stun son, Pastor tells his Texas congregants to keep weapons 
loaded for Biden's inauguration, Jan. 14, 2021, www.miamiherald. 
com/news/nation-world/natio na 1/a rticle 2 485027 40.htm I. 
Snopes.com fact-checked the sermon: 
www.snopes.com/fact-check/texas-pastor-weapons-loaded/ . 
A few weeks later, on February 24, the church hosted an event 
called "How the 2020 Election Was Stolen" that featured guest 
speaker Paul Davis, who broadcast lnstagram videos from the 
Capitol on January 6 in which he said, "We're all trying to get into 
the Capitol to stop this." See Dana Branham, North Texas lawyer 
unemployed after sharing video saying he was tear-gassed 
outside U.S. Capitol, Jan. 7, 2021, www.dallasnews.com/news/ 
pol itics/2 021/01/07 /north-texa s-lawyer-u nem ployed-after-sharing­
vi d eo-sayi n g-h e-wa s-tea r -gassed-outside-the-us-cap ito 1/. 
See also Mike Stunson, Texas church hosts '2020 election was 
stolen' event with Capitol rioter as guest, Ft. Worth Star-Telegram, 
Feb. 24, 2021, https://www.star-telegram.com/news/state/texas/ 
a rticle2 494 78860. htm l#storyl in k=cpy. 
Davis, a lawyer, has the Christian nationalist war cry "In God We 
Trust" over an American flag plastered all over his social media, 
which also often features Bible verses. See also Paul M. Davis(@ 
fireduptxlawyer), Twitter, 
https:/ /web.arch ive.org/web/2 021080 52 0 5918/twitter.co m/ 
fireduptxlawyer7s=09 ; 
https://web.archive.org/web/20211229160255/twitter.com/ 
fireduptxlawyer/status/1356282693584084994 . 
36 37. Public Gathering Permit, Rob Weaver Jericho March, National 
Park Service, Dec. 10, 2020, www.nps.gov/aboutus/foia/upload/20-
1357-Rob-Weaver-Jericho-March-permit REDACTED.pdf ; 
Peter Montgomery, The Religious Right's Rhetoric Fueled the 
Insurrection, Prospect.org, Feb. 8, 2021, 
prospect.org/a pi/a mp/po I itics/re I ig io us-right-rhetoric-fueled-the­
ca pito l-insu rrectio n/7 twitter impression=true . 
38. JerichoMarchAuthor, Thousands Of Religious Americans 
And Patriots Will Flock To Washington DC On December 12th To 
Protest Election Fraud And Corruption, Press Release, Dec. 5, 2020, 
https:/ /web.arch ive.org/web/2 0210319111233/https://je richo march. 
org/2 02 0/12/tho usa nds-of-rel ig ious-a merica n s-a nd-patri ots-wil 1-
flock-to-wa sh in gto n-d c-o n-d ecember-12th-to-p rotest-e lection-fra ud­
a nd-co rru pti on/. 
39. Jericho March, 1/JERICHOMARCH IISTOPTHESTEAL, 
VideoSquirrel, https://app_videosguirrel.app/watch/1761 . 
40. Women for America First played a major role in organizing the 
Million MAGA March and another December 12 rally, and it also has 
ties to Stop the Steal. The lines demarcating the groups are blurry, 
but the Christian nationalism is clear in all. See Craig Silverman, 
Jane Lytvynenko, and Pranav Dixit, How "The Women For America 
First" Bus Tour Led To The Capitol Coup Attempt, Buzz Feed News, 
Jan. 25, 2021, www.buzzfeednews.com/article/craigsilverman/maga­
bus-tour-coup . 
41. Jericho March, Jericho March on Dec 12, 2020 in DC and 
Contested States, VideoSquirrel, 
https:/ /a pp_videosg u irrel .a p p/watch/17 43. 
42. Jericho March, Announcing: Lt. Gen Flynn will be our special 
speaker on Dec 12 in DC, VideoSquirrel, 
https:/ /a pp_videosg u irrel .a p p/watch/1751. 
43. Rod Dreher, What I Saw At The Jericho March, The American 
Conservative, Dec. 12, 2020, www.theamericanconservative. 
com/dreher/what-i-saw-at-the-jericho-march/ . Video available at 
Crossroads with Joshua Philipp, LIVE from Rallies for Trump/Jericho 
March in Washington DC (Dec 12), YouTube, Dec. 12, 2020, 
www.youtube.com/watch7v=vwmz9ipL071 . 
44. Crossroads with Joshua Philipp, LIVE from Rallies for Trump/ 
Jericho March in Washington DC (Dec 12), You Tube, Dec. 12, 2020, 
at 3:11:54, https://youtu.be/vwmz9ipLO717t=11521. 
45. Right Side Broadcasting, Jericho March LIVE from Washington, 
DC, Facebook, Dec. 12, 2020, at 1:39:45, 
www.facebook.com/rsbnetwork/videos/188101792958083/ . 
46. Jericho March, Ave Maria -Stephanie D'urso at Jericho March 
Dec 12, Video Squirrel, https:/ /app_videosg uirrel.a pp/watch/1779 . 
47. Jericho March, Pre-Worship music before the Rally, 
https:/ /a pp_videosg u irrel .a p p/watch/1765 . 
48. Jericho March, Battle Hymm [sic] of the Republic sung with the 
crowd Jericho March https://app_videosguirrel.app/watch/1785 . 
49. Jack Jenkins and Emily McFarlan Miller, Eric Metaxas confirms 
he punched protester, says protester was to blame, Religion News 
Service, Sept. 1, 2020, 
https:/ /religion n ews.com/2 02 0/09/01/eric-metaxas-proteste r­
men aced-pu nch-vid eo-tru m p-rnc/;  Paul Glader, Exclusive: Author Eric Metaxas Admits Punching D.C. 
Protester And Offers Context, Religion Unplugged, Sept. 3, 2020, 
https:/ /religion unplugged.co m/news/2 02 0/9/3/excl usive-a utho r-eric­
metaxa s-a d m its-punch in g-p rotesto r -i n-d c -and-offers-mo re-context. 
50. Jericho March, Shofor was blown at the Jericho Marchi, 
VideoSquirrel, https://app_videosguirrel.app/watch/1770 . 
Shofar So Great, About Us, https://shofarsogreat.com/about-us/ . 
51. Right Side Broadcasting, Jericho Morch LIVE from 
Washington, DC, Facebook, Dec. 12, 2020, at 0:15:00 (shofars) 
and at 0:18:40 (national anthem), www.facebook.com/rsbnetwork/ 
videos/188101792958083/ . 
52. https://youtu.be/vwmz9iplO7I7t=5002 . 
53. Crossroads with Joshua Philipp, LIVE from Rallies for Trump/ 
Jericho Morch in Washington DC (Dec 12), You Tube, Dec. 12, 2020, 
at 1:56:12, https://youtu.be/vwmz9iplO7I7t=6972 ; 
Aaron Rupar (@atrupar), Twitter, Dec. 12, 2020, 11:49 AM, 
https://twitter.com/atru pa r/status/13378017262215413807Ia ng=en. 
Also, on January 6, a Catholic priest entered the Capitol to exorcise 
the demon Baphomet. Eddie Becker, Capitol Exorcism of Demonic 
Bophomet by Catholic Priest David Fulton, You Tube, Feb. 1, 2021, at 
0:20, https:/ /youtu.be/9vFZOPdaL2E7t=20 . 
54. Crossroads with Joshua Philipp, LIVE from Rallies for Trump/ 
Jericho Morch in Washington DC (Dec 12), You Tube, Dec. 12, 2020, 
at 1:23:53, https://youtu.be/vwmz9iplO7I7t=5020 . 
55. Jericho March, Rev. Kevin Jessip at Jericho Morch, 
VideoSquirrel, https://app_videosguirrel.app/watch/1798 . 
56. Jericho March, Fronk Goffney at Jericho Morch, Dec. 12, 
VideoSquirrel, https://app_videosguirrel.app/watch/1803 . 
57. Jericho March, Michele Bochmonn's message at Jericho 
Morch in DC on Dec 12, VideoSquirrel, 
https:/ /a pp_videosg u irrel .a p p/watch/1781 . 
58. Jericho March, Lance Wollnou at JerichoMorch in DC, Dec 12, 
VideoSquirrel, https://app_videosguirrel.app/watch/1780 . 
59. NTD Newsroom, Alex Jones Speaks at Rally: 'God Almighty is 
in Charge,' Dec. 13, 2020, https://www.ntd.com/alex-jones-speaks­
at-ra I ly-g od-a Imig hty-is-in-cha rg e 539362. htm I. 
60. Maggie Haberman, Matthew Rosenberg, Matt Apuzzo and 
Glenn Thrush, Michael Flynn Resigns as Notional Security Adviser, 
The New York Times, Feb. 13, 2017, 
https://www.nytimes.com/2 017 /02/13/us/pol itics/do na ld-tru mp­
nationa I-secu rity-adviser-m ichae I-flyn n. htm I. 
61. Jericho March, Lt Gen Flynn -Jericho Morch, D. C., Dec 12 -
Full Speech, VideoSquirrel, 
https://app_videosguirrel.app/watch/1776 at 1:46. 
62. NTD, Gen. Flynn speaks at pro-Trump rallies: 'We cannot 
accept what we ore going through as right,' You Tube, Dec. 12, 2020, 
at 20:50, https://youtu.be/TUOSOGWNgk07t=1249 . 
63. Jericho March, Stop The Steal & Ali on stage at Jericho Morch 
in DC, VideoSquirrel, https://app_videosguirrel.app/watch/1789 . 
64. Senators Josh Hawley, R-Mo., and Ted Cruz, R-Texas, would 
vie for that dishonor a few weeks later. 
65. Peter Montgomery, 'Stop the Steal' Activists Demond 
Congressional Republicans Give Election to Trump, Threaten 
Retaliation If They Don't, Right Wing Watch, Dec. 16, 2020, 
37 www.rightwingwatch.org/post/stop-the-steal-activists-demand­
con g ress ion a I-rep u bl ica n s-g ive-electio n-to-tru mp-th re ate n­
reta I iatio n-if-they-dont/ . 
66. Crossroads with Joshua Philipp, LIVE from Rallies for Trump/ 
Jericho Morch in Washington DC (Dec 12), You Tube, Dec. 12, 2020, 
at 1:56:37, https://youtu.be/vwmz9iplO7I7t=6997 ; 
Aaron Rupar (@atrupar), Twitter, Dec. 12, 2020, 11:49 AM, 
https://twitter.com/atru pa r/status/1337801726221541380 . 
67. Dr. Taylor Marshall, Vigono prays for USA, YouTube, 
https://youtu.be/-BjnxVoHJHw ; 
Jericho March, Archbishop Corio Mario Vigono, VideoSquirrel, 
https:/ /a pp_videosg u irrel .a p p/watch/1790 . 
68. Noble also is a Missouri lobbyist who works to move "public 
policy through the lens of a biblical worldview," runs a Concerned 
Women for America local affiliate, and is the director for Missouri's 
National Day of Prayer Task Force. See Cynthia Davis, Jill Noble -
Omnibus or Porkulous Bill?, Homefront with Cynthia Davis, March 
27, 2018, https:/ /web.a rchive.org/web/20200919021647 /https:/ /www. 
cynthiadavis.net/jill-noble-omnibus-or-porkulous-bill/ ; 
Joe Gamm, Prayers heard at schools, in the Capitol, Jefferson City 
(Mo.) News Tribune, May 3, 2018, www.newstribune.com/news/ 
news/story/2018/may/04/prayers-heard-schools-capitol/724807/ . 
69. Jericho March, Jill Noble, Notional Coordinator, Jericho Morch, 
VideoSquirrel, https://app_videosguirrel.app/watch/1810 ; 
Right Side Broadcasting, Jericho Morch LIVE from Washington, DC, 
Facebook, Dec. 12, 2020, at 1:39:57, 
www.facebook.com/rsbnetwork/videos/188101792958083/ . 
70. Jericho March, A prayer for the Notion from Bishop Joseph 
Strickland, Video Squirrel, https:/ /a pp_vid eosg u irrel.a pp/watch/1791 . 
71. Jericho March, Prayer from Fr. Fronk Pavone at Jericho Morch, 
VideoSquirrel, https://app_videosguirrel.app/watch/1793 . 
72. Jericho March, Prayer by Sr. Deirdre Byrne, POSC, MD, 
VideoSquirrel, https://app_videosguirrel.app/watch/1794 . 
73. Jericho March, Bishop Leon Benjamin, Sr. at Jericho Morch, 
VideoSquirrel, https://app_videosguirrel.app/watch/1797 . 
74. Jericho March, Prayer from Robbi Curt Landry at Jericho 
Morch, VideoSq uirrel, https:/ /app_videosgu irrel.a pp/watch/1784 , 
https:/ /yo utu. be/vwmz9iplO7I7t=9975 . 
75. Jericho March, Rev. Bill Cook at Jericho Morch, VideoSquirrel, 
https:/ /a pp_videosg u irrel .a p p/watch/1799 . 
76. Ryan Lucas, Who Are The Oath Keepers? Militia Group, 
Founder Scrutinized In Capitol Riot Probe, NPR, April 1, 2021, 
https://www.npr.org/2 021/04/10/985428402/wh o-a re-the-oath­
keepers-mil itia-g rou p-fou nde r-scrutin ized-in-ca p itol-riot-p robe. 
77. Jericho March, Stewart Rhodes from Oothkeepers at Jericho 
Morch, VideoSq uirrel, https:/ /app_videosgu irrel.a pp/watch/1807 ; 
Adele M. Stan, Oath Keepers' Stewart Rhodes Calls for 'Bloody War' 
if Trump Doesn't Invoke Insurrection Act, Right Wing Watch, Dec. 14, 
202 0, www. rig htwin gwatch .org/post/oath-keepers-stewa rt-rh odes­
ca I ls-for-bloody-wa r-if-tru mp-doesnt-invo ke-ins u rrection-act/ . 
78. Kristen Doerer, Violence, Both Literal and Rhetorical, Marks 
Right-Wing Convergence on Washington, DC, Right Wing Watch, 
Dec. 14, 2020, www.rightwingwatch.org/post/violence-both-literal­
and-rhetorical-marks-right-wing-convergence-on-washington-dc /.  79. Michael Wolff, Landslide: The Final Days of the Trump 
Presidency, New York, NY: Henry Holt and Company, 2021. 
80. Craig Silverman, Jane Lytvynenko, and Pranav Dixit, How 
"The Women For America First" Bus Tour Led To The Capitol Coup 
Attempt, BuzzFeed News, Jan. 25, 2021, 
www.buzzfeednews.com/a rticl e/cra ig silverma n/mag a-bus-tour-coup _ 
This article catalogs much of the violent rhetoric on that bus tour 
and features some of the same figures mentioned elsewhere in 
this report. 
81. C-SPAN, Women for America First Rally, Dec. 12, 2020, 
www.c-span.org/video/7507234-1/women-america-rally. 
82. Id., beginning at 2:02. 
83. Id., beginning at 2:48:15. 
84. Id., beginning at 2:03:34. 
85. Id., beginning at 2:32:15. See also, "I Heard Angels Singing": 
Survivor Contestant Found New Life in Jesus After Supernatural 
Moment in Jerusalem, Christian Broadcasting Network News, Oct. 
1, 2021, https://www1.cbn.com/cbnnews/2021/august/the-most­
incred ible-profo u nd-expe rience-of-my-I ife-su rvivor-contesta nt-tel ls­
she-h ea rd-angels-singing-bu rd ens-I ifted. 
86. @1church_united, lnstagram, Pastor Brian Gibson calls on 
pastors to stand up for the Church, and to never again let the 
government violate its civil liberties, Video, June 1, 2020, 
www.instagram.com/p/CA5g K8jDNcM/ ; 
Church United, Standing Up For The Church, Facebook, June 1, 
2020, www.facebook.com/watch/?v=2559273770995254 . 
87. C-SPAN, Women for America First Rally, Dec. 12, 2020, at 
3:21:20, www.c-span.org/video/7507234-1/women-america-rally. 
88. Crossroads with Joshua Philipp, LIVE from Rallies for Trump/ 
Jericho March in Washington DC (Dec 12), You Tube, Dec. 12, 2020, 
at 5:29:30, https://youtu.be/vwmz9ipLO7I7t=19776 . 
89. Right Side Broadcasting, LIVE: "Keep Christmas" Rally & 
Celebration from Washington, D.C., YouTube, Dec. 13, 2020, at 13:57, 
https:/ /yo utu. be/SC4M na 91 n jw7t=837. 
90. Id. at 13:41, https://youtu.be/SC4Mna91njw. 
91. Id. at 20:34, https://youtu.be/SC4Mna91njw7t=1234 . 
92. Peter Montgomery, Right-Wing Leaders Join Call for State 
Legislatures to Overrule Voters and Give Election to Trump, Right 
Wing Watch, Dec. 15, 2020, www.rightwingwatch.org/post/right­
win g-lead ers-jo in-ca II-fo r-state-leg islatu res-to-overrule-voters-and­
g ive-e lection-to-tru mp/_ 
93. The Freedom From Religion Foundation, Christian Nationalist 
sentiments of eight senators voting not to certify, at 
https:/ /ffrf.o rg/com po nent/k2/item/38413-cn-senate-ce rtificatio n; 
and Sampling of Christian Nationalist House members who voted 
not to certify, at 
https:/ /ffrf.o rg/com po nent/k2/item/38414-cn-hou se-certification . 
94. Bob Smietana, Jericho March plans DC return in the new year 
to pray Pence will overturn election, Religion News Service, Dec. 31, 
202 0, https:/ /religion news.co m/2 020/12/31/je richo-ma rch-new-yea r­
metaxa s-tru mp-pray-pence-wil I-overtu rn-e lection-co ng ress/. 
95. Jack Jenkins (@Jackmjenkins), Twitter. Feb. 15, 2021, 10:15 AM 
https://twitter.com/jackmjenkins/status/1361333381888434181 ; 
38 see also Bob Smietana, Jericho March Returns to DC to pray for a 
Trump miracle, Christianity Today, Jan. 5, 2021, 
https:/ /www.ch ristia n itytod ay.com/news/2 021/ja n ua ry/jericho-ma rch­
dc-electio n-ove rtu rn-tru m p-b iden-co ng ress.html . 
96. The Eric Metaxas Show, Jan. 5, 2021, https://web.archive.org/ 
we b/2 0210115142 503/https:/ /metaxa sta I k.com/pod ca st/tuesday­
january-5-2021/ (guest John Zmirak "explains why 'Christian 
Nationalism' is a good thing"). 
97. Jack Jenkins (@jackmjenkins), Twitter, Jan. 5, 2021, 12:02 PM, 
https://twitter.com/ja ckm jen kin s/status/1346502438996631553 . 
98. See e.g., Jonathan Wilson-Hartgrove, Jeff Sessions' 'religious 
liberty task force' part of a dangerous Christian nationalist 
campaign of discrimination, NBC News, July 31, 2018, 
https://www.nbcnews.com/th in k/opin ion/jeff-sessio ns-re I ig iou s-
I iberty-ta sk-force-pa rt-dangerous-ch ristia n-nationa I ist-ncn a89 5941. 
99. Jack Jenkins (@jackmjenkins), Twitter, Jan. 5, 2021, 12:52 PM, 
https://twitter.com/jackmjenkins/status/1346514861979803648 . 
100. Jack Jenkins (@jackmjenkins), Twitter, Jan. 5, 2021, 12:18 PM, 
https://twitter.com/ja ckm jen kin s/status/134650646802 4070150. 
101. Jack Jenkins, For insurrectionists, a violent faith brewed 
from nationalism, conspiracies and Jesus, Religion News Service, 
Jan. 12, 2021, https://religionnews.com/2021/01/12/the-faith-of-the­
insu rrectio n ists/. 
102. Jack Jenkins (@jackmjenkins), Twitter, Jan. 5, 2021, 11:48 AM, 
https://twitter.com/jackmjenkins/status/1346498763393794048 . 
103. Jack Jenkins (@jackmjenkins), Twitter, Jan. 5, 2021, 12:06 PM, 
https://twitter.com/jackmjenkins/status/1346503416126853121 . 
104. Jack Jenkins (@jackmjenkins), Twitter, Feb. 15, 2021, 7:15 AM, 
https://twitter.com/jackmjenkins/status/1361333381888434181 . 
105. Tess Owen, Roger Stone Used Oath Keepers as Security on 
the Eve of the Capitol Riot, Vice, Jan. 26, 2021, www.vice.com/en/ 
a rti c I e/7k9 m pd/roger -stone-used-th e-o ath-kee pe rs-a s-s ecu rity-o n­
th e-eve-of-th e-ca pitol-riot?utm sou rce=vice newstwitte r. 
106. Andy Humbles, Roger Stone and Pastor Greg Locke 
deliver energetic church service in Mt. Juliet, The Tennessean, 
Aug. 30, 2020, www.tennessean.com/story/news/2020/08/30/ 
roger-stone-a ppea ranee-mt-ju I iet-ch u rch-god-spa red-my-I ife-
pu rpose/3433049001/ . This is Pastor Greg Locke's church. Locke 
preached at these rallies as well. 
107. NTD, LIVE: 'Virginia Women for Trump' Rally at Supreme Court, 
YouTube, Jan. 5, 2021, 
https:/ /web.arch ive.org/web/2 0210303122358if /www.youtube.co ml 
watch7v=BukJ2iO0MWA&feature=youtu.be at 1:41:37 through 1:50:12. 
108. Clare Hymes and Cassidy McDonald, 10 Oath Keepers indicted 
in Capitol conspiracy case, government says more could be added, 
CBS News, Mar. 16, 2021, www.cbsnews.com/news/oath-keepers­
ind icted-consp iracy-ca pitol-riots-ke n neth-ha rrelso n/. 
109. Associated Press, FBI arrests 2, including Roger Stone 
bodyguard, in Capitol riot, Chicago Sun Times, Mar. 8, 2021, 
https:/ /ch icago.su ntimes.co m/2 021/3/8/2232 0383/fbi-a rrests-2-
incl u d ing-rog er-stone-bodyguard-ca pito I-riot; 
Tess Owen, Roger Stone Used Oath Keepers as Security on the 
Eve of the Capitol Riot, Vice, Jan. 26, 2021, www.vice.com/en/ 
a rti c I e/7k9 m pd/roger -stone-used-th e-o ath-kee pe rs-a s-s ecu rity-o n­
th e-eve-of-th e-ca pitol-riot?utm sou rce=vice newstwitte r.  110. Global TV Online, I/LIVE: STOP THE STEAL Coalition Pre-Rally 
at Freedom Plaza Ahead of Tomorrow's Big Events in DC, YouTube, 
Jan. 5, 2021, https://youtu.be/bE2-VnBd4ps 
(8-hour video for the afternoon and evening portions); 
Bloomberg Ouicktake: Now, LIVE: Pro-Trump Protesters Hold 'Rally 
for Revival' at Washington, D.C. Freedom Plaza, YouTube, Jan. 5, 
2021, https://youtu.be/tRUTm-Zlcow (evening rally); 
Peter Montgomery, Christian Nationalism and Threats of Violence 
at Pro-Trump Rally on Eve of Electoral College Certification, Right 
Wing Watch, Jan. 6, 2021, www.rightwingwatch.org/post/christian­
nationa I ism-and-th reats-of-viole nce-at-pro-tru m p-ra I ly-o n-eve-of­
electora I-col leg e-certificatio n/. 
111. Id. 
112. Global TV Online, I/LIVE: STOP THE STEAL Coalition Pre-Rally 
at Freedom Plaza Ahead of Tomorrow's Big Events in DC, YouTube, 
Jan. 5, 2021, at 3:21:11, https://youtu.be/bE2-VnBd4ps7t=12071 ; 
See also Peter Montgomery, March For Trump Pastor Brian Gibson 
Says Leftists Are Using the Capitol Insurrection as Excuse to 
Persecute Christians, Right Wing Watch, Jan. 29, 2021, 
www.rightwingwatch.org/post/ma rch-for-tru mp-pa sto r-bria n-
g ibson-says-leftists-a re-using-the-ca pito 1-insu rrection-as-excuse-to­
persecute-ch ristia ns/. 
113. E (@ladygeewiz5), Twitter, Jan. 7, 2021, 10:23 AM, 
https://twitter.com/la dyg eewiz 5/statu s/134 720214631652 55687s=19 . 
114. Pastor Ken Peters -TCAPP (@PastorKenTCAPP), Twitter, 
Jan. 5, 2021, 6:01 PM, https://twitter.com/PastorKenTCAPP/ 
status/1346592777333841921 . 
He flew to D.C. with Mike Lindell in Lindel l's private plane; Lindell 
also paid for Peters to stay at the Trump Hotel. He also shared 
election lies. See Morning Edition, New Survey Shows 3 In 5 White 
Evangelicals Say Joe Biden Wasn't Legitimately Elected, NPR, Feb. 
19, 2021, www.npr.org/2021/02/19/969351648/new-survey-shows-3-
in-5-wh ite-eva ng el ica ls-say-joe-b ide n-wa snt-leg itimately-elec. 
115. Global TV Online, I/LIVE: STOP THE STEAL Coalition Pre-Rally 
at Freedom Plaza Ahead of Tomorrow's Big Events in DC, YouTube, 
Jan. 5, 2021, at 3:16:59, https://youtu.be/bE2-VnBd4ps7t=11819 . 
116. Pastor Ken Peters -TCAPP (@PastorKenTCAPP), Twitter, Jan. 5, 
2021, 11:01 AM, https://web.archive.org/web/20211001151506/twitter. 
com/PastorKenTCAPP/status/1346894800113586177 . 
117. Peter Montgomery, Christian Nationalism and Threats 
of Violence at Pro-Trump Rally on Eve of Electoral College 
Certification, Right Wing Watch, Jan. 6, 2021, www.rightwingwatch. 
org/post/ch ristia n-nation a I ism-and-th reats-of-vio lence-at-p ro-tru mp­
ra I ly-o n-eve-of-electora I-college-certification/ . 
118. Id. See also, Bloomberg Ouicktake: Now, LIVE: Pro-Trump 
Protesters Hold 'Rally for Revival' at Washington, D. C. Freedom 
Plaza, YouTube, Jan. 5, 2021, at 1:46:45, 
https:/ /yo utu. be/tR UT m-Zlcow7t=6403 . 
119. Bloomberg Ouicktake: Now, LIVE: Pro-Trump Protesters Hold 
'Rally for Revival' at Washington, D.C. Freedom Plaza, You Tube, Jan. 
5, 2021, at 3:15:01, https://youtu.be/tRUTm-Zlcow7t=11701. 
120. Id. at 3:27:48, https://youtu.be/tRUTm-Zlcow7t=12468 . 
121. Id. at 2:01:48, https://youtu.be/tRUTm-Zlcow7t=7308 ; 
Jack Jenkins, As 'Jericho Marchers' descend on Washington, local 
faith leaders brace for attacks, Religion News Service, Jan. 5, 2021, 
https:/ /religion n ews.com/2 021/01/05/as-jericho-ma rche rs-descend­
on-wa sh in gto n-loca I-faith-leaders-brace-for-attacks/ . 
39 122. That story about President Jackson is mythical. There is no 
primary Jacksonian source that mentions this alleged deathbed 
quote. The earliest source is a report published by the Methodist 
Episcopal Church more than 20 years after Jackson's death. The 
quote appears unsourced and uncited in a footnote attached 
to a sermon preached by Luther Townsend as he was arguing 
for government funding of his religious schools. Rev. Luther T. 
Townsend, "Address at the Freedmen's Aid Society," in Third Annual 
Report of the Freedmen's Aid Society of the Methodist Episcopal 
Church (1868), p. 77, available at 
https:/ /hd I.hand le.net/2 027 /coo.3192 4011851858 . 
Appendix B 
1. Jack Jenkins (@jackmjenkins), Twitter, Feb. 15, 2021, 7:15 
AM, https://web.archive.org/web/20210303120554/twitter.com/ 
jackmjen kins/status/1361333381888434181 . 
2. WildProtest.com, https://web.archive.org/ 
web/20210106065650/www.wildprotest.com/#about. 
3. Sarah Lynch, U.S. charges nine Oath Keepers with conspiring 
to storm Capitol, Reuters, Feb. 19, 2021, www.reuters.com/article/ 
us-usa-tru mp-capitol-a rrests/u-s-cha rg es-nine-oath-keepers-with­
con spiring-to-storm-ca pito I-id USKBN2AJ238 . 
4. Ryan Goodman and Justin Hendrix, "Fight for Trump": Video 
Evidence of Incitement at the Capitol, Just Security, Jan. 25, 2021, 
www.justsecurity.org/74335/fight-for-trump-video-evidence-of­
inciteme nt-at-the-ca pito 1/. 
5. Sarah Posner, How the Christian right helped foment 
insurrection, Reveal News, Jan. 30, 2021. https://revealnews.org/ 
article/how-the-ch ristia n-rig ht-hel ped-foment-insu rrectio n/. 
6. Video: Rally on Electoral College Vote Certification: 
Campaign 2020, C-SPAN, Jan. 6, 2021, at 5:56, www.c-span.org/ 
video/? 5077 44-1/ra I ly-electora I-college-vote-certification . 
7. Id. at 6:20. 
8. Id. at 7:00. 
9. Id. at 8:32. 
10. Id. at 9:12. 
11. White appears to have been using the King James Version. 
12. Video: Rally on Electoral College Vote Certification: Campaign 
2020, C-SPAN, Jan. 6, 2021, at 10:00. Rewriting the Bible is but one 
of the issues. White was also delivering a public prayer, something 
Jesus condemns as hypocrisy just a few verses earlier in Matthew 
6:5-6. 
13. Id. at 10:06. 
14. Teo Arm us, A 'Stop the Steal' organizer, now banned by 
Twitter, said three GOP lawmakers helped plan his D.C. rally, 
Washington Post, Jan. 13, 2021, www.washingtonpost.com/ 
nation/2 021/01/13/a Ii-a lexa nd er-ca pitol-b igg s-gosa r/. 
15. Jim Newell, Turns Out Mo Brooks Was Wearing Body Armor to 
Trump's Very Peaceful Jan. 6 Rally, Slate, July 28, 2021, 
https:/ /slate.com/news-and-pol itics/2 021/07 /mo-brooks-body-armor­
ja n-6-ra I ly.html. 
16. Video: Rally on Electoral College Vote Certification: 
Campaign 2020, C-SPAN, Jan. 6, 2021, at 37:55, www.c-span.org/ 
video/? 5077 44-1/ra I ly-electora I-college-vote-certification .  17. Id. at 40:24. 
18. Id. at 42:05. 
19. Id. at 45:23. 
20. Id. at 46:58. 
21. Id. at 48:02. 
22. Paul Gattis, Mo Brooks on 'kick ass' speech: 'I make no 
apology' for inspiring patriotic Americans, AL.com, Jan. 8, 2021, 
WNw.al.com/news/2021/01/mo-brooks-on-kick-ass-speech-i-make­
no-a po logy-for-inspiring-patriotic-a me rica ns.htm I. 
23. Id. 
24. Catie Edmondson and Luke Broadwater, Before Capitol Riot, 
Republican Lawmakers Fanned the Flames, New York Times, Jan. 
11, 2021, www.nytimes.com/2021/01/11/us/politics/republicans-capitol­
riot.html. 
For more on Madison Cawthorn, including how he became a 
preacher after a paralyzing car crash, see Matthew Kassel, 
Madison Cawthorn arrives in Washington, Jewish Insider, Nov. 16, 
202 0, https://jewis h insider.co m/2 02 0/11/mad ison-cawth orn-a rrives­
wa sh in gto n/. 
25. Video: Rally on Electoral College Vote Certification: 
Campaign 2020, C-SPAN, Jan. 6, 2021, at 2:10:15, WNw.c-span.org/ 
video/? 5077 44-1/ra I ly-electora I-college-vote-certification . 
26. Id. at 2:10:30. 
27. Id. at 1:17:15. 
28. Id. at 2:22:05. 
29. Peter Montgomery, The Sordid Record of John Eastman, 
the Latest Right-Wing Lawyer on Trump's Legal Team, Right Wing 
Watch, Dec. 10, 2020, https://www.rightwingwatch.org/post/the­
sord id-record-of-jo h n-eastma n-the-latest-rig ht-wing-lawyer-an­
tru m ps-lega 1-tea m/. 
30. Id. at 2:24:18. 
31. "COME AND TAKE IT" flag. AP Photo/Evan Vucci, Caption: 
People listen as President Donald Trump speaks during a rally Jan. 
6, 2021, in Washington, AP Images, Jan. 6, 2021, www.apimages. 
com/metad ata/1 nd ex/ APTO PIX-Tru m p-E lectora 1-Col lege-Protests/ 
f2 b66fd c27904ed b9997 4f28141f6496/16/0 . 
32. PVC cross and Savior/President flag. AP Photo/Evan Vucci, 
Caption: People listen as President Donald Trump speaks during a 
rally Jan. 6, 2021, in Washington, AP Images, Jan. 6, 2021, 
WNw.apimages.com/metadata/lndex/APTOPIX-Trump-Electoral­
College-Protests/f2b66fdc27904edb99974f28141f6496/16/0 . 
33. ProPublica captured many of the videos from Parler before 
the website was destroyed. Lena Groeger et. al., What Parler Saw 
During the Attack on the Capitol, ProPublica, Jan. 17, 2021, 
https:/ /projects.pro pub I ica .org/pa rler-ca pitol-videos/ . 
This video shows the woman and the flag at 1:05, 
https://d2hxwnssg7ss7g.cloudfront.net/vrWD0g1NIOPA cvt.mp4_ 
34. Brendan Smialowski, Getty Images, TOPSHOT-US-POLITICS­
ELECTION (1230448360), Jan. 6, 2021, 
WNw.gettyimages.com/detail/news-photo/people-wait-on-the­
nationa I-ma 11-outside-a-secu rity-news-ph oto/1230448360 . 
35. Video at https://d2hxwnssg7ss7g.cloudfront.net/ 
eGWFiGU2WtR8 cvt.mp4 at 3:59-4:01. 
40 36. Video: Rally on Electoral College Vote Certification: 
Campaign 2020, C-SPAN, Jan. 6, 2021, at 3:46:44, www.c-span.org/ 
video/75077 44-1/ra I ly-electora I-co I lege-vote-certificatio n. 
37. C-SPAN, DC Police Officer Daniel Hodges Full Opening 
Statement on January 6th Attack at the U.S. Capitol, YouTube, 
July 27, 2021, at 8:03, available at 
www.youtube.com/watch7v=Z00T3hnle14 . 
See also Jack Jenkins, Police officer says Jan. 6 insurrectionists 
'perceived themselves to be Christians,' Religion News Service, July 
27, 2021, https:/ /religionnews.com/2021/07 /27 /police-officer-calls-
ja n ua ry-6-insu rrection ists-terrorists-who-perceived-th emselves-to­
be-ch ristia ns/. 
38. NurPhoto, Getty Images, Trump Supporters Hold "Stop The 
Steal" Rally In DC Amid Ratification Of Presidential Election, Jan. 
6, 2021, https://www.gettyimages.com/detail/news-photo/trump­
su p porters-nea r-the-u-s-ca pito 1-on-ja n ua ry-06-2 021-in-news­
photo/1230476983 . 
39. Bloomberg, Getty Images, Protests As Joint Session Of 
Congress Confirms Presidential Election, Jan. 6, 2021, https:// 
www.gettyimages.com/detail/news-photo/demonstrator-holds-a­
ma n neg u in-wea ring-a-n oose-with-tra itor-n ews-p hoto/1230449 570. 
40. Luke Mogelson, Among the Insurrectionists, The New Yorker, 
Jan. 15, 2021, www.newyorker.com/magazine/2021/01/25/among­
th e-ins u rrection ists; 
See also Frank Fernandez, Federal prosecutors seek to revoke 
pre-trial release, detain Volusia Proud Boys member, The Daytona 
Beach News-Journal, Apr. 7, 2021, www.news-journalonline.com/ 
story/news/co u rts/2 021/04/07 /feds-seek-revo ke-pre-tria 1-relea se­
vol u sia-prou d-boys-mem be r-jose ph-b iggs/7120378002/ . 
41. CNBC Television, Police officers testify in Jan. 6 select 
committee's first hearing -7/27/21, You Tube, July 27, 2021, at 13:57, 
www.youtube.com/watch7v=hnFSSyoNu k&t=119s. 
Transcript available at 
www.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/2107/27/se.02.html . 
42. NPR, January 6: Inside the Capitol Siege, Jan. 15, 2021, 
www.npr.org/tra nscripts/9 573620 53. 
43. The New Yorker, A Reporter's Footage from Inside the Capitol 
Siege, YouTube, Jan. 17, 2021, at 11:36, 
https://youtu.be/270F8s5TEKY7t=696 . 
44. Peter Manseau (@Plmanseau), Twitter, Jan. 17, 2021, 10:00 PM, 
https://twitter.com/plmanseau/status/1351001498969374724 . 
45. Tyler Merbler, Flickr.com, Jan. 6, 2021, Gallows 1, 
www.flickr.com/photos/37527185@N05/50814530472/ . 
46. Capitol Square Review and Advisory Bd. v. Pinette, 515 U.S. 
753, 792 (1995) (Souter, J., concurring). 
47. Camille Caldera, Fact check: Demonstrators erected a cross at 
Michigan Capitol, not US Capitol, USA TODAY, Jan. 7, 2021, 
www.usatoday.com/story/news/factcheck/2021/01/07/fact-check-
de mo nstrato rs-erected-cross-mich iga n-ca pito 1/658162 9002/. 
This article clarifies that a specific cross erected with ropes featured 
in a widely-shared video was actually erected at the Michigan 
Capitol, not the U.S. Capitol, as many people sharing it suggested; 
however, photos and video show many other crosses at the U.S. 
Capitol as seen herein. 
48. http://d2hxwnssg7ss7g.cloudfront.net/50CkdwJRDOa3 cvt. 
mp4 at 0:03, 0:19-0:23.  49. Peter Manseau (@plmanseau), Twitter, Feb. 9, 2021 2:47 PM, 
https://twitter.com/pl ma nsea u/status/1359227518583255049 . 
See also Elizabeth Dias and Ruth Graham, How White Evangelical 
Christians Fused With Trump Extremism, New York Times, Jan. 11, 
2021, https://nyti.ms/2LHNB5u . 
50. Id. 
51. See also Win MacNamee, Congress Holds Joint Session To 
Ratify 2020 Presidential Election, Getty Images, Jan. 6, 2021, nos. 
1294875193 ; 1294872343 ; and 1294872319 . 
Video of Insurrection Crowd, Jan. 6, 2021, at 0:05, 
https://d 2a md hg g rspxsl.cl oudfro nt. net/s3vids/yS8n nxnXxf7 4. 
converted.mp4 _ 
They carried them at the Dec. 12 Jericho March and at the Supreme 
Court rally on Nov. 14, too. see, e.g., Video of Rally at Supreme 
Court, Nov. 14, 2021, at 0:02, https://d2amdhggrspxsl.cloudfront.net/ 
s3vids/j2C40xc3KALU.converted.mp4 _ 
52. Win MacNamee, Congress Holds Joint Session To Ratify 2020 
Presidential Election, Getty Images, Jan. 6, 2021, no. 1294873105 . 
53. Rhae Lynn Barnes and Keri Leigh Merritt, A Confederate flog 
at the Capitol summons America's demons, CNN Opinion, Jan. 7, 
2021, www.cnn.com/2 021/01/07 lo pinions/ca pito I-riot-confederacy­
re con stru cti on-bi rth-of-a-n ati on-me rritt-b a rn es/ind ex. htm I. 
54. See Andrew Seidel, The Founding Myth: Why Christion 
Nationalism is Un-American. New York: Sterling, 2019, Ch. 24. 
55. Statement of Facts, Case No. 1:21-cr-287-2, January 13, 2021 
at https://www.justice.gov/usao-dc/p ress-re lease/fi le/1354306/ 
download . 
56. Hamil Harris, YouTube, Jan. 7, 2021, Pro-Trump Protesters, 
0:01-0:05, www.youtube.com/watch7v=8c nC6Ug jVc. 
Seefried appears at the beginning, speaking to another camera 
crew, and it's hard to make out all the words. But Harris clarifies 
some in the text of his story. Hamil Harris, Congress certifies Biden 
as president ofter mob carrying Christion symbols storms Capitol, 
The Christian Chronicle, Jan. 7, 2021, 
https:/ /ch ristia nch ron icle.org/us-co ng ress-certifies-bid en-as-
presid ent-afte r-mo b-ca rryin g-ch ristia n-symbols-sto rms-the-ca pito 1/. 
57. Ruth Braunstein, Georgia on My Mind: American Christianity 
between Mythology and Prophecy, Berkley Center, Georgetown 
University, Feb. 3, 2021, https://berkleycenter.georgetown.edu/ 
res po nses/georg ia-o n-my-m ind-a merica n-ch ristia n ity-between­
myth ology-a nd-proph ecy. 
58. Andrew Seidel (@AndrewLSeidel), Twitter, Jan. 
6, 2021 3:33 PM, https://twitter.com/AndrewLSeidel/ 
status/1346917837399617540 ; 
Here it is on the march to the Capitol: Robert Nickelsberg, Trump 
Supporters Hold "Stop The Steal" Rally In DC Amid Ratification Of 
Presidential Election, Getty Images, Jan. 6, 2021, no. 1296432288 ; 
Seven seconds into this video of marchers heading to the Capitol: 
https://d 2a md hg g rspxsl.cl oudfro nt. net/s3vids/nsGY09h le Peh. 
converted.mp4 ; 
In this video of an Epoch Times interview, it's draped over a 
red pickup truck: https://d2amdhggrspxsl.cloudfront.net/s3vids/ 
fgmYl9BgZlj8.converted.mp4 (you can actually see three separate 
Christian flags in this one video and other flags with Christian 
imagery and verbiage, such as "Jesus is my Savior, Trump is 
my President"); 
41 There are two Christian flags in this video: http://d2amdhggrspxs1. 
cloudfront.net/s3vids/BKSLTTzlt0u2.converted.mp4 ; 
Here's another: www.shutterstock.com/ed ito ria I/ima ge-ed itoria I/u s­
P reside nt-tru mp-sup po rte rs-storm-the-cap ito I-i n-nyc -us a-6-j an-2 0 21-
11697298a I. 
59. Video at https://ffrf.org/uploads/video/Jan6 Videos/Flag Guy 
Captioned Jan6.mp4 _ 
See also, Jack Jenkins, For insurrectionists, a violent faith brewed 
from nationalism, conspiracies and Jesus, Religion News Service, 
Jan. 12, 2021, https://religionnews.com/2021/01/12/the-faith-of-the­
insu rrectio n ists/. 
60. Lev Rad in, Pro-Trump Riot in Washington DC, District of 
Columbia, United States, Shutterstock, Jan. 6, 2021, 
www.shutterstock.com/editorial/image-editorial/protrump-riot-in­
wash ington-d c-d istrict-of-col um bia-u n ited-states-06-ja n-2 021-
11696121g u. 
At the November 14 rally at the Supreme Court, a nearly identical 
flag read, "JESUS IS LORD." https://d2amdhggrspxsl.cloudfront.net/ 
s3vids/RizVuHc6OOEX.converted.mp4 at 0:36. 
A handwritten sign at that rally also proclaimed "Jesus is King, 
Trump is president." at 0:25 https://d2amdhggrspxsl.cloudfront.net/ 
s3vids/yS8nnxnXxf74.converted.mp4 _ 
61. NBC News, Protestors walk around on Senate floor ofter 
breaking into Capitol building, Jan. 6, 2021, www.nbcnews.com/ 
video/p rotesters-wa I k-a rou n d-o n-se nate-floor-after-b rea king-into­
ca pito I-build ing-98948677663 . 
62. The sign accompanying the Christian flag purports to 
quote Benjamin Franklin, but actually quotes a Face book post 
and You Tube video posted one week earlier by Dutch Sheets, a 
preacher from South Carolina who had been hosting daily prayers 
on YouTube asking God to intercede and make Trump president 
again. Dutch Sheets, The Eagles ore Rising I Give Him 15: Doily 
Prayer with Dutch Doy 54, You Tube, Dec. 30, 2020, 
https:/ /yo utu .be/pl feJ b 7Rg UY7t=600 . 
Sheets's December 30, 2020, Facebook post is long. He recounts 
a six-scene dream given to Dan Lynch, a preacher out of Pensacola. 
After hearing this dream, Sheets prayed specific prayers at several 
key locations in Washington, D.C., as he believed the dream 
commanded. The dream involved a flock of eagles at various 
monuments, including the Washington Monument, Jefferson 
Memorial, Lincoln Memorial, and Trump Hotel. Of course, Trump 
was in the dream as well, "holding a Benelli Super Black Eagle 
shotgun and reloading it with shells" with dead ducks all around 
him. Outside the Trump Hotel, a statue of Ben Franklin comes to life, 
"angry and teary-eyed with rage" and condemns mail-in voting with 
a cryptic comment: 
Then, he repeated his famous phrase, "We have a Republic, if we 
can keep it." He reached out to shake my hand and looked me in 
the eye as if to say, "Let's make sure we keep it." 
Sheets interprets "Franklin's ... oft-repeated quote regarding the 
republic" as "an admonition and warning to the ekklesio to keep 
fighting." Sheets offers several definitions of ekklesio but here 
means American Christians, and Sheets specifies the fight as 
"spiritual warfare." The YouTube video has been viewed nearly a 
quarter of a million times. The reach of the video and certainly 
the message is considerably broader. For instance, Riverside Full 
Gospel Church in Lucedale, Mississippi, played the message during 
its service. See Riverside Full Gospel, Facebook (Live Stream) at 
1:04:15, Dec. 31, 2020, www.facebook.com/watch/1ive/?v=36469229 
22021401&ref=watch permalink .  63. This flag can be seen in video: Inside News, We Decoded The 
Symbols From The Storming Of The Capitol I Decoded, YouTube, 
Jan. 16, 2021, at 0:10, https://youtu.be/blxT61F-Ris7t=10 , at 5:42, 
https://youtu.be/blxT61F-Ris7t=339 , and at 6:02, https://youtu.be/ 
blxT61 F-Ris7t=362 ; 
Right Side Broadcasting Network, RSBN LIVE: U.S. Capitol on 
Lockdown, Senate and House in Recess, YouTube, Jan. 6, 2021, at 
3:00, https://youtu.be/vTXOkcwYxvE7t=180 ; 
RFIRN, Eostside Capitol Building 1/6/21, YouTube, Jan. 10, 2021, at 
25:25, https://youtu.be/ZjlvYgJ2-EM7t=1526 (on the East steps, just 
as they breach the door). 
And in multiple photos: Shira Feder, Storming of the Capitol through 
the lens of a veteran Jewish DC photographer, The Times of 
Israel, Jan. 14, 2021, www.timesofisrael.com/storming-of-the-capitol­
th rough-th e-1 en s-of-a-vete ra n-j ewi s h-d c -photographer/ , 
see specifically https://static.timesofisrael.com/www/ 
uploads/2021/01/901 Wolf use-1536x1022-1-1024x640. jpg; 
Lev Radin, Pro-Trump Riot in Washington DC, District of Columbia, 
United States, Shutterstock, Jan. 6, 2021, www.shutterstock.com/ 
ed itoria 1/imag e-ed itoria 1/p rotru mp-ri ot-i n-wa sh ington-dc-d istrict-of­
col u mb ia-u n ited-states-06-ja n-2 021-11696121eg ; 
Ala my, Save America Rally, moments before Capitol Protest begins, 
www.alamy.com/save-a merica-ra I ly-moments-befo re-capitol-protest­
beg ins-wash in gto n-d c-u sa-image397573598.htm I and www.alamy. 
com/save-a merica-ra I Iv-moments-before-ca pito I-protest-beg ins-
wa sh in gto n-d c-usa-image396867421.htm 1. 
The "Jesus is my Savior, Trump is my president" slogan even 
appeared on shirts. See Robert Nickelsberg, Trump Supporters 
Hold "Stop The Steal" Rally In DC Amid Ratification Of Presidential 
Election, Getty Images, Jan. 6, 2021, no. 1298602248 ; 
Oliver Douliery, US-POLITICS-ELECTION, Getty Images, Jan. 6, 
2021, no. 1230448106 . 
64. Brendan Smialowski, US-POLITICS-ELECTION, Getty Images, 
Jan. 6, 2021, no. 1230448066 . 
65. Kimberly Winston, The History Behind The Christion Flogs 
Spotted At The Pro-Trump U.S. Capitol 'Coup', Religion Unplugged, 
Jan. 6, 2021, https://religionunplugged.com/news/2021/1/6/some-
h isto ry-be hind-the-ch ri stia n-fla gs-at-the-pro-trump-capitol-coup _ 
66. Jordan Klepper interviewed this individual for the Daily Show 
on Comedy Central. The Daily Show with Trevor Noah, Jordon 
Klepper Fingers the Pulse-Capitol Insurrection (Clip}, Season 26, 
Comedy Central, Aired Jan. 12, 2021, at 2:30, www.cc.com/video/ 
a k9ta k/the-d a ily-show-with-trevor-noa h-jo rda n-klep per-fingers-the­
pu lse-ca pito I-insurrection . 
67. Elvert Barnes, 52.Eost.USCopitol.WDC, Jan. 6, 2021, www.flickr. 
com/photos/pe rs pective/50813221182/i n/a I bum-721577177812 68118/. 
68. EXCLUSIVE: Mon who entered Capitol tells his story to 
LlfeSiteNews, LifeSiteNews, Jan. 6, 2021, at 4:17, 
www.lifesitenews.com/news/exclusive-man-who-stormed-capitol-
te 11 s-h i s-sto ry-to-1 if es ite news. 
69. See endnote 62. 
70. Ra pert is a preacher and legislator who started a group 
for "Christian lawmakers" alongside his personal ministry and 
sponsored bills for a Ten Commandments monument at the 
Arkansas Capitol and to require the posting of "In God We Trust" in 
every public school classroom. 
42 71. Jason Rapert (@jasonrapert), Twitter, Mar. 12, 
2021 6:47 AM (Thread), https://twitter.com/jasonrapert/ 
status/1370340721379659782 ; 
Jason Ra pert, America Under Attack-the Bottle for The Soul of Our 
Notion (Blog), Holy Ghost Ministries, Jan. 9, 2021, 
www.holyghostministries.org/post/america-under-attack-the-battle­
for-th e-so u 1-of-ou r-nation. 
72. Alison Benders, The Capitol Riot was on Attempt to Lynch our 
Democracy, National Catholic Reporter, Feb. 10, 2021, 
www.ncronline.org/news/opinion/capitol-riot-was-attempt-lynch-our­
democracy. 
73. Jack Jenkins, For insurrectionists, a violent faith brewed 
from nationalism, conspiracies and Jesus, Religion News Service, 
Jan. 12, 2021, https://religionnews.com/2021/01/12/the-faith-of-the­
insu rrectio n ists/. 
74. "WWJD" is a common abbreviation for "What Would Jesus 
Do," but it is also an acronym in OAnon circles for "We Want Justice 
Delivered," as it is used in this instance. 
75. Tyler Merbler, Flickr.com (Jan. 6, 2021), 
www.flickr.com/photos/37527185@N05/50814426406/ . 
76. Inside News, We Decoded The Symbols From The Storming 
Of The Capitol I Decoded, You Tube, Jan. 16, 2021, at 5:40, 
https:/ /yo utu .be/blx T61 F-Ris7t=340 ; 
Katie Munnik, HIS FLAG HELD HIGH: The Capitol Hill insurrectionists 
misused symbols of Christion faith, Christian Courier, Feb. 5, 2021, 
www.ch ristia n co u rier.ca/h is-flag-he ld-h ig h/. 
77. @MeltzerSaidWhat, Twitter (Feb. 15, 2021 4:26 AM), https:// 
twitter.com/Meltze rSa idWhat/status/13612 45590 571651077 /p hoto/2. 
The icon was Christ Pantocrator of St. Catherine's Monastery 
at Sinai. 
78. FBI Most Wanted, Photograph #240B, www.fbi.gov/wanted/ 
ca pito 1-viole nce-imag es/ca pito 1-2 40b. jpg/view. 
79. Tish Harrison Warren, We Worship with the Magi, Not MAGA, 
Christianity Today, Jan. 7, 2021, www.christianitytoday.com/ct/2021/ 
january-web-only/trump-capitol-mob-election-politics-magi-not­
maga.html . 
Anadolu Agency, Trump supporters storm Capitol building in 
Washington, Getty Images, Jan. 6, 2021, no. 1230455582 . 
80. Alex Edelman, TOPSHOT-US-POLITICS-ELECTION-TRUMP, 
Getty Images, Jan. 6, 2021, no. 1230457390 . Here's the flag: 
www.a ma zo n.co m/Protect-G u ns-G lory-O utd oo r-Polyester/d p/ 
B08B4JHROX . 
81. Ala my, Save America Rally, moments before Capitol Protest 
begins. Washington DC USA, Jan. 6, 2021, www.alamy.com/save­
a merica-ra I ly-moments-befo re-cap ital-protest-begins-wash in gto n­
dc-usa-imag e396869881.htm I; 
www.alamy.com/save-a merica-ra I Iv-moments-before-cap ito 1-protest­
beg ins-wash in gto n-d c-u sa-ima ge397275859.html . 
Peter Manseau (@plmanseau), Twitter, Jan. 17, 8:47 PM (Thread), 
https://twitte r.com/p I ma nsea u/status/1350983168992 694273. 
82. Tasos Katopodis, Trump Supporters Hold "Stop The Steal" 
Rally In DC Amid Ratification Of Presidential Election, Getty Images, 
Jan. 6, 2021, no. 1294934174 . 
See full flag here: www.dhgate.com/product/thank-you-president­
tru mp-gad-bless-a merica/577833 510. htm I.  83. Tyler Merbler, Flickr.com, Jan. 6, 2021, Flags, 
www.flickr.com/photos/37527185@N05/50820737423/ . 
84. Spencer Platt, Trump Supporters Hold "Stop The Steal" Rally In 
DC Amid Ratification Of Presidential Election, Getty Images, Jan. 6, 
2021, no. 1294886235 . 
Here is the pole with the first two flags: Ala my, Save America Rally, 
moments before Capitol Protest begins. Washington DC USA, 
Jan. 6, 2021, www.alamy.com/save-america-rally-moments-before­
capitol-protest-begins-washington-dc-usa-image397275363.htm1 . 
85. Emma Green, A Christian Insurrection, The Atlantic, Jan. 8, 
2 021, www.theatlantic.com/po I itics/a rch ive/2021/01/eva ng el ica ls­
cathol ics-je richo-ma rch-ca pitol/617591/ . 
86. Image: Times of Israel, Trump-Chaos, Jan. 6, 2021, 
https://static.timesofisrael.com/www/uploads/2021/01/trump-chaos-
2048x1363-1-1024x640. jpg_ 
Shira Feder, Storming of the Capitol through the lens of a veteran 
Jewish DC photographer, The Times Of Israel, Jan. 14, 2021, 
www.timesofisrael.com/storming-of-the-capitol-through-the-lens-of­
a-vetera n-jewish-dc-ph otog ra pher/. 
Insider News, New Footage Shows What It Was Like Inside The 
Trump Mob At The Capitol I On The Ground, YouTube, Jan. 8, 2021, 
at 3:50, https://youtu.be/L5hksM R59M7t=230 ; 
Peter Manseau (@plmanseau), Twitter, Jan. 18, 202110:45 AM, 
https://twitter.co m/pl man sea u/status/13 511939942 61389316 ; 
Spencer Platt, Trump Supporters Hold "Stop The Steal" Rally In DC 
Amid Ratification Of Presidential Election, Getty Images, Jan. 6, 
2021, no. 1294943470 ; 
Inside News, YouTube, Jan. 16, 2021, We Decoded The Symbols 
From The Storming Of The Capitol I Decoded, at 5:29, 
www.youtube.com/watch7v=blxT61F-Ris&t=329s ; 
Robert Nickelsberg, Trump Supporters Hold "Stop The Steal" Rally 
In DC Amid Ratification Of Presidential Election, Getty Images, Jan. 
6, 2021, no. 1298602345 . 
87. Tyler Merbler, Flickr.com, Jan. 6, 2021, Bullhorn, www.flickr. 
com/photos/37527185@N05/50826612312/ ; 
Tasos Katopodis, Trump Supporters Hold "Stop The Steal" Rally In 
DC Amid Ratification Of Presidential Election, Getty Images, Jan. 6, 
2021, no. 1294933091. 
88. The Good Liars (@TheGoodLiars), Twitter (Jan. 
7, 2021 8:37 PM), https://twitter.com/TheGoodLiars/ 
status/13473566277799075867s=19 . 
89. Dr Anthony Harper lnterMountain Christian News, JESUS 
2020 and Forever Our Only Hope, You Tube, Jan. 6, 2021, 
www.youtube.com/watch7v=EeNENk6awLw. 
90. Gina Ciliberto, Stephanie Russell-Kraft, THEY INVADED 
THE CAPITOL SAYING 'JESUS IS MY SAVIOR. TRUMP IS MY 
PRESIDENT', Sojourners, Jan. 6, 2021, https://sojo.net/articles/they­
invad ed-ca pito I-saying-jesus-my-savio r-tru mp-my-president. 
91. Tyler Merbler, Flickr.com, Jan. 6, 2021, DSC09051, 
www.flickr.com/photos/37527185@N05/50826608743/ . 
92. Ken Camp, Christian nationalism clearly evident in Capitol 
riot, Baptist Standard, Jan. 7, 2021, www.baptiststandard.com/news/ 
nation/ch ristia n-natio na I is m-clea rly-evid ent-in-ca p itol-riot/. 
43 93. John Nacion, US President Trump Supporters Storm the 
Capitol in NYC, USA, Shutterstock, Jan. 6, 2021, 
www.shutterstock.com/ed ito ria I/ima ge-ed itoria I/us-president-trump­
su pporters-storm-the-ca pitol-in-nyc-usa-6-ja n-2 021-116972 98 p_ 
94. Alice Greczyn (@alicegreczyn), lnstagram, Jan. 7, 2021, 
www.instagram.com/p/CJxNmlHHeWh/?igshid=1h623gx6fyrer ; 
Ken Camp, Christian Nationalism clearly evident in Capitol riot, 
Baptist Standard, Jan. 7, 2021, www.baptiststandard.com/news/ 
nation/ch ristia n-nationa I ism-clearly-evident-in-capitol-riot/ . 
A similar shirt can be seen here, at 0:28 https://d2amdhggrspxsl. 
cloudfro nt. net/s3vids/ APS3cYpz DCyn.co nverted. mp4. 
95. Tyler Merbler, Flickr.com, Jan. 6, 2021, Peace Monument II, 
www.flickr.com/photos/37527185@N05/50825951853/ . 
96. Elizabeth Dias and Ruth Graham, How White Evangelical 
Christians Fused With Trump Extremism, New York. Times, Jan. 
11, 2021, www.nytimes.com/2021/01/11/us/how-white-eva ngelica I­
ch ristia ns-fu sed-with-tru mp-extremism. htm I. 
97. Tasos Katopodis, Trump Supporters Hold "Stop The Steal" 
Rally In DC Amid Ratification Of Presidential Election, Getty Images, 
Jan. 6, 2021, no. 1294934227 ; 
See https://warrior12.com/products/all-lives-matter . 
98. NurPhoto, Trump Supporters Hold "Stop The Steal" Rally In 
DC Amid Ratification Of Presidential Election, Getty Images, Jan. 6, 
2021, no. 1230476105 . 
99. Inside News, We Decoded The Symbols From The Storming 
Of The Capitol I Decoded, You Tube, Jan. 16, 2021, at 0:03, 
https:/ /youtu.be/b Ix T61 F-Ris7t=3 . 
100. Statement of Facts, Case No. 1:21-mj-00533, July 21, 2021, 
https://extremism.gwu.edu/sites/g/files/zaxdzs2191/f/Samuel%20 
Laza r%2 0State me nt%2 0of%2 OF a cts.pdf. 
101. Robert Townsend, St. Louis pastor, assistant professor fear 
Capitol unrest will widen racial divide in US, News 5 St. Louis 
(KSDK), Jan. 7, 2021, at 0:47, www.ksdk.com/article/news/local/ 
ca pitol-u n rest-widen-racia I-d ivid e-st-lou is/63-39d cf 4f6-58 53-4ce8-
a aef-f 489786626b2 ; 
Daniel Griffin (@HC_Exvangelical), Twitter, Mar 19, 2021, 12:54 PM 
(Replying to @AndrewLSeidel), 
https://twitter.co m/HC Exva ng el ica I/status/1372 9 54 703143702532 ; 
See also, The Patri0t, 7pyX4y0Z2wiy, YouTube, Jan. 12, 2021, at 0:19, 
https://youtu.be/7O0E AL9W47t=19 (as the mob moves toward 
the east steps to the Capitol with "Jesus is my Savior, Trump is my 
president" flag flying, Christian flag in background). If you look up 
those verses of Scripture, you will find that Hebrews 4:12 says that 
the word of God is "sharper than any two-edged sword." According 
to Jeremiah 4:7, "a destroyer of nations has set out ... to make your 
land a waste." And Psalm 67 includes the statement that God "shalt 
... govern the nations upon earth." 
102. Id. 
103. Tyler Merbler, Flickr.com, Jan. 6, 2021, DSC09013, 
www.flickr.com/photos/37527185@N05/50827353956/ . 
104. Emma Green, A Christian Insurrection, The Atlantic, Jan. 8, 
2 021, www.theatlantic.com/pol itics/a rch ive/2 021/01/eva ngel ica ls­
cath ol ics-jericho-ma rch-ca pito 1/617591/.  105. Elena Schor/Associated Press, Christianity on display at 
Capitol riot sparks new debate, Chicago Sun Times, Jan. 28, 2021, 
https:/ /ch icago.su ntimes.co m/2 021/1/28/222 55041/ch ristia n ity-
d isplay-ca p itol-riot-s parks-new-debate ; 
Peter Manseau (@plmanseau), Twitter, Jan. 17, 2021 9:31 AM, 
https://twitter.com/pl ma nsea u/status/135081292 0633044992?s=09 . 
106. Tyler Merbler, Flickr.com, Jan. 6, 2021, DSC09170, www.flickr. 
com/photos/37527185@N05/50826699171/ ; 
See also Inside News, We Decoded The Symbols From The 
Storming Of The Capitol I Decoded, YouTube, Jan. 16, 2021, at 5:45, 
https:/ /yo utu. be/blx T61 F-Ris7t=345 . 
107. Emily McFarlan, How an iconic painting of Jesus os o white 
man was distributed around the world, Washington Post, June 25, 
2020, www.washingtonpost.com/religion/2020/06/25/how-an-
icon ic-pa inting-jesu s-wh ite-ma n-was-d istributed-a rou nd-wo rid/; 
James Martin, S.J., Jesus was not white. Here's why we should stop 
pretending he was, America: The Jesuit Review, June 26, 2020, 
www.americamagazine.org/faith/2020/06/26/jesus-was-not-white­
heres-why-we-shou Id-stop-pretend ing-h e-wa s; 
Sarah Pruit, The Ongoing Mystery of Jesus' Face, History Channel, 
Feb. 20, 2019, www.history.com/news/what-did-jesus-look-like . 
108. Andrew Seidel (@AndrewLSeidel), Twitter, Feb. 17, 
2021, 2:52 PM (Thread), https://twitter.com/AndrewLSeidel/ 
status/1362127768033648642 ; 
Thanks to Prof. Julie Byrne for the identification confirmations. 
Julie Byrne (@JulieByrneHUCS), Twitter, Mar. 5, 2021, 8:41 PM 
(Replying to @AndrewLSeidel), https://twitter.com/JulieByrneHUCS/ 
status/1368013876726534145 . 
109. https://d2hxwnssg7ss7g.cloudfront.net/CE7LhOI22vJ9 cvt. 
mp4_ 
110. Tyler Merbler, Flickr.com, Jan. 6, 2021, Hats, 
www.flickr.com/photos/37527185@N05/50821278796/ . 
111. RFIRN, Eastside Capital Building 1/6/21, YouTube, Jan. 10, 2021, 
at 23:15, https://youtu.be/ZjLvYgJ2-EM7t=1395 . 
Andrew Seidel (@AndrewLSeidel), Twitter, Mar. 19, 202112:26 PM, 
https://twitter.com/ And rewLSeid el/status/137294 7542464458752 . 
112. RFIRN, Eastside Capital Building 1/6/21, YouTube, Jan. 10, 2021, 
at 42:26 youtu.be/ZjLvYqJ2-EM7t=2546, and at 43:29, 
https:/ /yo utu. be/ZjLvYgJ2-EM?t=2609 . 
113. RFIRN, Eastside Capital Building 1/6/21, YouTube, Jan. 10, 2021, 
at 23:15 https://youtu.be/ZjLvYgJ2-EM?t=1395 ; 
Andrew Seidel (@AndrewLSeidel), Twitter, Mar. 19, 202112:26 PM, 
https://twitter.com/ And rewLSeid el/status/137294 7542464458752 . 
114. News2Share, Police battle Trump supporters storming Capitol, 
five killed -Raw Video, You Tube, Jan. 6, 2021, at 13:35, 
https:/ /yo utu. be/b 76KfH B0OO87t=815 . 
115. Blink O'fanaye, Flickr.com, Jan. 6, 2021, Capitol Jan 
6, www.flickr.com/photos/blinkofanaye/50817461411/in/ 
album-72157717767349052/ . 
116. Eddie Becker, Capitol Exorcism of Demonic Baphomet by 
Catholic Priest David Fulton, You Tube, Feb. 1, 2021, at 0:20, 
https:/ /yo utu. be/9vFZO Pda L2 E7t=2 0. 
A priest from Omaha, David Fulton, said the insurrection was 
"awesome" in an interview, and he said that he performed an 
exorcism in the Capitol, specifically targeting "a demon called 
44 Baphomet" because "exorcists found out that he's the one 
dissolving the country in order to bring it into something different." 
According to Fulton, Baphomet is one of the "demons' generals," 
and the priest even described the demon's tattoos. During the 
interview he held up a copy of a book called "Minor Exorcisms and 
Deliverance Prayers in Latin and in English." 
117. The New Yorker video from Luke Mogelson, A Reporter's 
Footage from Inside the Capitol Siege, YouTube, Jan. 17, 2021, at 
7:52, https://youtu.be/270F8s5TEKY7t=475 . 
118. Aff. of FBI Special Agent regarding Michael Roche, Statement 
of Facts, Apr. 7, 2021, 
https://extremism.gwu.edu/sites/g/files/zaxdzs2191/f/Michael%20 
Roche%20Statement%20of%20Facts.pdf#page=2 . 
119. The New Yorker, A Reporter's Footage from Inside the Capitol 
Siege, YouTube, Jan. 17, 2021, at 8:00, 
https:/ /yo utu .be/270F8s5TE KY7t=4 75. 
120. Sophie Long, 'QAnon Shaman' Jake Angeli charged over pro­
Trump riots, BBC News, Jan. 10, 2021, 
www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-55606044 . 
121. Brief in Support of Detention for Plaintiff, United States 
v. Jacob Anthony Chansley, CR21-00003-RCL (D.Ariz. 2021), 
https:/ /extrem ism.gwu.ed u/sites/g/fi les/zaxd zs2191/f/ Jaco b%2 0 
Chansley%20Detention%20Memo.pdf . 
122. ProPublica, Parler video of Jacob Chansley a.k.a. "Jacob 
Angeli", Jan. 6, 2021, 
https://d2hxwnssg7ss7g.cloudfront.net/HpO07PUDmWDk cvt.mp4_ 
123. Hope O'Brien, Hundreds gather outside Maricopa election 
center for third day of protests, Cronkite News: Arizona PBS, Nov. 6, 
202 0. https:/ /cron kitenews.az pbs.org/2 02 0/11/06/h u nd reds-gather­
outside-ma rico pa-election-center-for-th ird-d ay-of-p rotes ts/; 
Madison Cerro and Kyla Pearce, Biden claims 'clear victory' as 
Arizonans await final vote counts in razor-thin election, Cronkite 
News: Arizona PBS, Nov. 8, 2020, https://cronkitenews.azpbs. 
org/2 020/11/08/b iden-cla ims-clea r-victo ry/; 
Hope O'Brien (@HopeAObrien), Twitter, Jan. 6, 
2021, 11:40 PM, https://twitter.com/HopeAObrien/ 
status/13470402793379225627s=19 . 
124. Karoun Demirjian, Carol Leonnig, Paul Kane, and Aaron Davis, 
Inside the Capitol siege: How barricaded lawmakers and aides 
sounded urgent pleas for help as police lost control, Washington 
Post, Jan. 10, 2021, http://apo.st/3eu8X2k . 
125. Hannah Allam (@HannahAllam), Twitter, Jan. 
6, 2021, 12:00 PM, https://twitter.com/hannahallam/ 
status/13468641142 0802 66267Ia n g=en. 
Jack Jenkins, As chaos hits Capitol, two forms of faith on 
display, Religion News Service, Jan. 6, 2021, https://religionnews. 
co m/2 021/01/06/as-cha os-h its-ca pito I-two-forms-of-fa ith-o n-d isplay/. 
126. Nate Gowdy, Attack on the U.S. Capitol (Image Slideshow), 
Rolling Stone, Jan. 7, 2021, www.rollingstone.com/culture/culture­
pictu res/tru m p-s u ppo rte rs-ca pito I-dc-atta ck-1111216/010621 stop-the­
stea I-cred it-nate-gowdy-03/ . 
127. Molly Olmstead, "God Have Mercy on and Help Us All": How 
prominent evangelicals reacted to the storming of the U.S. Capitol, 
Slate, Jan. 7, 2021, https://slate.com/human-interest/2021/01/trump­
ca pito I-riot-eva nge I ica I-lea ders-rea ctio ns.htm I.  0:02:23 https://ja n6evide nce.com/#/e/end h hCX9 
8I9c7Iatitude=38.89054280679416&Iongitude=-
77.008336424206&zoom=16.942066617474666 . 
"Dear Lord we come to you today ... We pray that you soften the 
hearts of those that have turned hard towards you. We pray for 
those in our government that have turned harshly away from you 
as well as others in our society, Lord. We pray and realize that the 
only way we return to you is via reformation and revival and we 
ask for that, Lord ... We thank you for the wonderful nation we've 
all been blessed to be in and the value systems we've all gotten 
to experience in our lives. Lord, we pray you continue to uphold 
and restore these and pray that you provide all of us courage and 
strength to both represent you and represent our culture well. In His 
name, Amen!" 
Elizabeth Dias and Ruth Graham, How White Evangelical Christians 
Fused With Trump Extremism, New York Times, Jan. 11, 2021. 
www.nytimes.com/2 021/01/11/us/how-wh ite-eva n gel ica I-ch ristia ns­
fu sed-with-tru mp-extremis m.htm I. 
128. Inside News, We Decoded The Symbols From The Storming 
Of The Capitol I Decoded, You Tube, Jan. 16, 2021, at 5:45, 
https:/ /yo utu. be/blx T61 F-Ris7t=345 . 
129. Mhairi Forrest (@mhairiforrest), Twitter, Jan. 17, 2021, 9:27 PM, 
https://twitter.com/m ha irifo rrest/statu s/1350993230431662 094. 
130. Id. 
131. Kenny Holston, Trump Supporters Storm Capitol Building 
Ahead of Biden Confirmation, for New York Times, Jan. 6, 2021, 
https:/ /ken nyho lsto n.sg u a res pace.co m/insu rrectio n-of-us-ca pito I at 
http s://b it.ly/3 b KSVzt. 
132. ProPublica, Parler videos at 3:34 and 3:35 p.m. at 
https://d2hxwnssg7ss7g.cloudfront.net/Rp3grB15ypiE cvt.mp4 and 
https://d2hxwnssg7ss7g.cloudfront.net/TNi4F73rBo86 cvt.mp4_ 
133. Jack Jenkins (@jackmjenkins), Twitter, Jan. 17, 
2021, 10:40 PM (thread), https://twitter.com/jackmjenkins/ 
status/1351011602548617224 . 
134. Dion Wear shirt, "Crusader Knights Templar Distressed Cross 
T-Shirt -Crusader Warrior Distressed Cross," Amazon.com at 
https://web.archive.org/web/20211217185134/www.amazon.com/ 
Crusader-Knights-Temp la r-Distressed-T-Sh irt/d p/B07BX6M 5DJ. 
135. Samuel Corum, Getty Images, Trump Supporters Hold "Stop 
The Steal" Rally In DC Amid Ratification Of Presidential Election, 
Jan. 6, 2021, nos. 1230454096 ; 1230454072 ; 1230454719 . 
136. Gina Ciliberto, Stephanie Russell-Kraft, THEY INVADED THE 
CAPITOL SAYING 'JESUS IS MY SAVIOR. TRUMP IS MY PRESIDENT,' 
Sojourners, Jan. 7, 2021, https://sojo.net/articles/they-invaded-
ca pito I-saying-jesus-my-savio r-tru mp-my-president. 
137. The Good Liars (@TheGoodLiars), Twitter, Jan. 9, 2021 3:33 
PM, https://web.archive.org/web/20210109233342/twitter.com/ 
TheGood Lia rs/status/13480 502 63 521849344 . 
138. Jon Cherry, Trump Supporters Hold "Stop The Steal" Rally In 
DC Amid Ratification Of Presidential Election, Getty Images, Jan. 6, 
2021, no. 1230458038 ; 
NurPhoto, Trump Supporters Hold "Stop The Steal" Rally In DC 
Amid Ratification Of Presidential Election, Getty Images, Jan. 6, 
2021, no. 1230476422 ; 
Shira Feder, Storming of the Capitol through the lens of a veteran 
Jewish DC photographer, The Times of Israel, Jan. 14, 2021, www. 
ti me sofi s ra e I .com/storming-of-the-cap ito I-through-th e-I ens-of-a­
vete ra n-jewish-d c-p hotog ra phe r/. 
45 139. Andrew Seidel (@AndrewLSeidel), Twitter, Feb. 17, 
202112:08 PM (Thread), https://twitter.com/AndrewLSeidel/ 
status/1362086612855894016 . 
140. @DaughterOfTheKing, TikTok, Jan. 6, 2021, 
www.tiktok.com/@hijadelrey77/video/6914804288539659526 ; 
Ashton Pittman (@ashtonpittman), Twitter, Jan. 10, 2021 8:42 PM, 
https://twitte r.com/a shton p ittma n/status/1348445250327601154 . 
Both accounts are posting TikTok videos from user @hijadelrey77, 
whose account is not publicly accessible. 
141. Kari Jobe, Revelation Song, written by Jennie Lee Riddle, 
Gateway Worship, 2006, which begins, "Worthy is the Lamb who 
was slain," is heard. 
142. The Peace Monument is a 44-foot-high monument standing 
in the circle to the west of the U.S. Capitol at Pennsylvania Avenue 
and First Street, N.W. Architect of the Capitol, Peace Monument, 
https:/ /www.aoc.gov/explore-ca pito I-cam pus/a rt/peace-man u ment. 
143. https://d2a md hgg rspxsl.clo udfro nt.n et/s3vi ds/u0 5Aol pvcVjY. 
converted.mp4 ; https://jan6attack.com/videos/u/u05AolpvcVjY/ (in 
the grass NW of the Capitol and the Peace Monument and bounded 
by Pennsylvania and Constitution, and 2nd and 3rd Streets). 
144. Emphasis added. Compare with WeAreWorship Lyrics & 
Chords, Robert Gay -People of the Lord, YouTube, Mar. 25, 2019, 
www.youtube.com/watch7v=YElmTniljiA. 
145. https://d2hxwnssg7ss7g.cloudfront.net/kk2ZFW9PB5w3 cvt. 
mp4; https://ja n6atta ck.com/vid eos/k/kk2ZFW9PB5w3/ . 
146. JerichoMarch20 (@jerichomarch20), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 6:36 
PM, https://web.archive.org/web/20210108200944/twitter.com/ 
jerichomarch20/status/1347009255665258504 . 
147. JerichoMarch20 (@jerichomarch20), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021 6:38 
PM, https://web.archive.org/web/20210108202339/twitter.com/ 
jerich oma rch2 0/statu s/134 7009 584112816131 . 
148. Michael M. Phillips, Jennifer Levitz, and Jim Oberman, One 
Trump Fan's Descent Into the Capitol Mob, Wall Street Journal, Jan. 
10, 2021, www.wsj.com/articles/one-trump-fans-descent-into-the-u-s­
ca pitol-mob-11610311660 . 
149. Cudd ran for mayor of Midland, Texas, in 2019 on a Trumpian 
platform. Midland Reporter-Telegram, Who is Jenny Cudd?, Jan. 8, 
2021, www.mrt.com/news/article/Who-is-Jenny-Cudd-15856266. 
php#taboola-2 ; 
Midland Reporter-Telegram (Lifestyle), Jenny Cudd, 33, Self 
Employed Entrepreneur/Business Owner, Nov. 28, 2017, 
www.mrt.com/mid land mag az ine/2 Ou nde r40/a rticl e/ Jenny­
Cudd-33-1238967 4. Ph P. 
150. Coatomc, JENNY CUDD FACEBOOK LIVE AFTER RIOT AT 
CAPITOL HILL (FULL VIDEO}, YouTube, Jan. 8, 2021, https://youtu. 
be/pXuO4g-OVWg ; 
See also case no. 1:21-cr-68, 
www.justice.gov/usao-dc/defendants/cudd-jenny-louise ; 
Samantha Lock, Jenny Cudd, a Capitol Rioter, Brags of Violence 
and Soys She'd Do It Again in Viral Video, Newsweek, Jan. 8, 2021, 
www.newsweek.com/jen ny-cudd-ca pitol-rioter-b rags-violence-says­
shed-do-it-ag a in-vira I-vid eo-1559904 . 
151. Coatomc, JENNY CUDD FACEBOOK LIVE AFTER RIOT AT 
CAPITOL HILL (FULL VIDEO}, YouTube, Jan. 8, 2021, at 24:41, 
https:/ /yo utu .be/pXuO4g-OVWg7t=1481 .  Cudd also defended her actions and selfie video in yet another 
selfie video, saying, "I don't regret anything that I did, because I 
know that I did not damage any property or hurt any people." See 
ABC 27 News (KMID), Former Texas mayoral candidate arrested in 
connection with Capitol occupation, Jan. 13, 2021, 
www.abc27.com/news/u s-wo rld/n ationa 1/fo rmer-texa s-mayo ra l-
ea nd id ate-arrested-in-connection-with-capitol-occupation/ . 
152. Andrew Seidel, Fundraising for Kyle Rittenhouse Reveals 
American Christianity's White Supremacy Problem, Religion 
Dispatches, Sept. 2, 2020, 
https:/ /rel ig iond ispatches.o rg/fu nd ra ising-for-kyl e-ritten ho use­
revea Is-a merica n-ch ristia n itys-wh ite-su pre ma cy-prob lem/. 
153. Patriot legal defense, Campaign Created by: Jenny Cudd, 
GiveSendGo.com (Christian Fundraising), Jan. 8, 2021, archived at 
https://web.archive.org/web/20210719183549/www.givesendgo. 
com/Jennycudd . 
154. Kim Lacapria, ACLU Director Resigns Over Transgender 
Bathroom Policy, Snopes, June 3, 2016, https://www.snopes.com/ 
fact-check/aclu-director-resigns-over-transgender-bathroom-policy/ . 
See also, Ali Swenson, Skewed data fuel questionable claim on 
Trump election lawsuits, The Associated Press, Feb. 12, 2021, 
https:/ /a pnews.co m/a rticle/fact-checking-99 54662 940 
(concluding that LifeSiteNews published stories about the 2020 
election that contained "false conclusions with no basis in fact."); 
Canada land, The biggest Canadian far-right news site you probably 
haven't heard of, Feb. 22, 2021, https://www.canadaland.com/ 
I ifesite news-biggest-ca na d ia n-fa r-rig ht-site-you-havent-hea rd-of/. 
155. LifeSiteNews, EXCLUSIVE: Man who entered Capitol tells his 
story to LifeSiteNews, LifeSiteNews, Jan. 6, 2021, at 3:50, 
www.lifesitenews.com/news/exclusive-man-who-stormed-capitol­
tel ls-his-story-to-I ifesiten ews; rum ble.com/vci4hv-excl usive-ma n­
wh a-stormed-ca pito 1-te I ls-h is-sto ry-to-1 ifesitenews.htm I. 
156. See also, Aff. in Support of Arrest Warrant, U.S. v. Black (D.D.C 
2021) (1:21-mj-00049), https://extremism.gwu.edu/sites/g/files/ 
zaxdzs2191/f/Joshua%20Matthew%20Black%20Affidavit%20in%20 
Support%20of%20Criminal%20Complaint.pdf . 
The New Yorker video shows Black with his MAGA hat off and 
hands raised in worship during the prayer around 9 minutes in. He 
has on one yellow leather glove and one purple medical glove. 
Black is wearing a red MAGA hat, camouflage pants, camouflage 
jacket, protective gloves, protective eyewear, and a "Blacks for 
Trump" T-shirt, which he claims is a joke -Joshua Matthew Black 
is white. 
157. Black initially posted his 40-minute video as two parts on 
You Tube, but the videos are no longer available to the public. 
https://youtu.be/ATwZ-8GgvO4 ; 
https://youtu.be/VEBFv6NKe9O ; 
They are archived here: https://web.archive.org/ 
web/20210116044645/www.youtube.com/watch7v=ATwZ-8GgvQ4 ; 
https://web.archive.org/web/20210116044739/www.youtube.com/ 
watch7v=VEBFv6NKe9O . 
158. Jack Jenkins, The insurrectionists' Senate floor prayer 
highlights a curious Trumpian ecumenism, Religion News 
Service, Feb. 25, 2021, https://religionnews.com/2021/02/25/the­
insu rrectio n ists-sen ate-floo r-prayer-h ig h I ig hts-a-cu rious-tru m pia n­
ecu men ism/. 
159. https://web.archive.org/web/20210116044645/wwwvoutube. 
com/watch7v=ATwZ-8GgvO4 at 13:57. 
46 160. Id. at 24:10, https://web.archive.org/web/20210116044739/www. 
youtube.com/watch7v=VEBFv6NKe9O at 1:47. 
161. https://web.archive.org/web/20210116044739/wwwvoutube. 
com/watch7v=VEBFv6NKe9O at 5:01, 7:53, 8:32, and 11:56. 
162. Jeffrey Goldberg, Moss Delusion in America: What I heard 
from insurrectionists on their march to the Capitol, The Atlantic, 
Jan. 6, 2021, www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2021/01/among­
insurrectionists/617580/ . 
163. Id. 
164. Aff. in Support of Arrest Warrant, U.S. v. Baker (D.D.C. 2021) 
(1 :21-mj-00170), https:/ /extrem ism.gwu.ed u/sites/g/fi les/zaxd zs2191/f/ 
Stephen%20Maury%20Baker%20Criminal%20Complaint.pdf . 
165. Stephen Baker, A.K.A. Stephen Ignoramus (lgnant Thoughts­
Blog), Why I'm A Christian Nationalist, Substack.com, July 19, 2021, 
https://ig nor a mu s.su bsta ck.com/p/why-im-a-ch ristia n-nation a I ist. 
The criminal complaint and affidavit link Baker, aka Stephen 
Ignoramus, to these social media accounts and notes that Baker 
himself made the connection during the livestream. See Aff. in 
Support of Arrest Warrant, U.S. v. Baker (D.D.C. 2021) (1:21-mj-00170), 
www.justice.gov/file/1362776/download . 
166. Criminal Complaint and Arrest Warrant, U.S. v. Padilla 
(D.D.C. 2021) (1:21-mj-00252), https://extremism.gwu.edu/sites/g/ 
files/zaxdzs2191/f/Joseph%20Padilla%20Complaint%20and%20 
Statement%20of%20Facts.pdf . 
167. Hamil Harris, Pro-Trump Protesters, YouTube, Jan. 7, 2021, at 
0:44, www.youtube.com/watch7v=8c nC6Ug jVc&t=68s . 
See also Hamil Harris, Congress certifies Biden as president after 
mob carrying Christian symbols storms Capitol, The Christian 
Chronicle, Jan. 7, 2021, https://christianchronicle.org/us-congress­
ce rtifi es-bide n-a s-p resident-after-mob-carrying-ch ri sti a n-sym bo Is­
sto rms-the-ca pito 1/. 
168. Id. at 1:22, https://youtu.be/8c nC6UgjVc7t=82 . 
169. Hamil Harris, Pro-Trump Protesters, YouTube, Jan. 7, 2021, at 
3:36, https://youtu.be/8c nC6Ug jVc7t=211. 
170. Colin Kalmbacher, Georgia Lawyer Who Allegedly Bragged 
About Being One of the First to Kick in Pelosi's Office Door Is Hit 
with Serious Charges, Law And Crime: A Dan Abrams Production, 
Jan. 19, 2021, https://lawandcrime.com/u-s-capitol-siege/georgia­
lawyer-who-a I leg ed ly-bra gged-a bout-being-one-of-the-first-to-kick­
i n-pe I os i s-offi ce-d oo r -i s-h it-with-se ri o us-ch a rg es/. 
171. Hemant Mehta, Christian Terrorist in Capitol Siege Said it Was 
"God's Will" to Kill Millions, Friendly Atheist-Patheos, Jan. 22, 2021, 
https:/ /friend lyathe ist.path eos.com/2021/01/22/ch ristia n-terrorist-in­
ca pito 1-sieg e-sa id-it-was-god s-wil 1-to-kil I-mil I ions/. 
172. Peter Holley, He Rioted at the Capitol. Then for Weeks He 
Lived in Luxury While Hiding From the FBI, Texas Monthly, Feb. 
26, 2021, www.texasmonthly.com/news-politics/capitol-riots-luke­
coffee/. 
Coffee is deeply religious, too; See Texas Angel, TEXAS ANGEL -
An Introduction, YouTube, Nov. 5, 2019, 
www.youtube.com/watch7v=Bmh D8 y8Aec. 
173. Pilar Melendez, Fledgling Actor From Texas Bashed a Cop 
With a Crutch in Capitol Riot: Docs, The Daily Beast, Feb. 26, 2021, 
www.thedailybeast.com/1 u ke-coffee-fled g I ing-acto r-from-texa s-
ba shed-a-cop-du ring-ca pito I-riot-prosecutors-a I lege.  174. Statement of Facts, US v. Coffee (D.D.C. 2021) (1:21-mj-00236), 
https://extremism.gwu.edu/sites/g/files/zaxdzs2191/f/Luke%20 
Coffee%20Statement%20of%20Facts 0.pdf. 
175. Central Track Staff, The Insurrectionists Among Us in North 
Texas, Central Track, Jan. 20, 2021, 
www.centraltrack.com/the-insurrectionists-among-us-in-north-texas/ . 
176. Alberto Luperon, Self-Professed White Supremacist, Who 
Wanted to Be 'Lone Wolf Killer,' Arrested over D.C. Insurrection: 
DOJ, Law And Crime: A Dan Abrams Production, Jan. 17,2021, 
https:/ /law an dcrime.co m/u-s-ca pito 1-siege/self-professed-wh ite­
su prema cist-who-wa nted-to-be-lone-wolf-kil le r-a rrested-ove r-d-c­
insurrection-do j/. 
Aff. in Support of a Criminal Complaint, U.S. v. Betancur (D.D.C. 2021) 
(1 :21-m j-00072), https:/ /extrem ism.gwu.ed u/s ites/g/fi les/zaxdzs2191/f/ 
Bryan%20Bentacur%20Affidavit%20in%20Support%20of%20 
Criminal%20Complaint.pdf . "Gideon International" is a reference to 
'The Gideons International." 
177. Manuel Balce Ceneta, HATE REPORT 2020 (21030016515299), 
AP Images, Jan. 6, 2021, http://www.apimages.com/metadata/lndex/ 
Hate-Report-2020/b05f7cad62954c2dbbce1eeb3bdef02e/43/0 . 
178. Statement of Facts, Case No. 1:21-cr-6, January 8, 2021 at 
https:/ /www.justice.gov/opa/pag e/fi le/1353376/down load. 
179. The New York Times, Inside the Capitol Riot: An Exclusive 
Video Investigation, June 30, 2021, at 21:05, www.nytimes. 
com/2021/06/30/us/ja n-6-ca pito 1-atta ck-takeaways. htm I. 
180. Doug Jensen (@DAJeeper), Twitter, Dec. 26, 2020, 9:41 PM, 
https:/ /web.arch ive.org/web/2 02 01227054210/twitter.com/ 
DAJeeper/status/1343069549298655232 . 
181. Doug Jensen (@DAJeeper), archived Twitter account, at https:// 
web.archive.org/web/20201226234900/twitter.com/DAJeeper . 
182. St. Anthony Catholic Church, Des Moines, Iowa, Photos, 
www.stanthonydsm.org/from-the-office/media.html . Jensen's 
employer at the time was only about a half mile from the shrine. 
183. Igor Bobic (@igorbobic), Twitter, Jan. 6, 2021, 3:09 PM, at 1:17, 
https://twitter.com/igorbobic/status/1346911809274478594 . 
Manuel Ba Ice Ceneta, CAPITOL BREACH DELAWARE ARRESTS 
(21014743712703), AP Images, Jan. 6, 2021, 
www.apimages.com/metadata/1ndex/Capitol-Breach-Delaware­
Arrests/da93e97e86c8417ab48d202db654d77a/53/0 . 
Manuel Balce Ceneta, CAPITOL BREACH-CIVIL WAR 
(21016005353117), AP Images, Jan. 6, 2021, 
www.apimages.com/metadata/1ndex/Capitol-Breach-Civil-War/77db 
02cc92dc4290828130b7dd8971f3/49/0 . 
184. Campi. and Arrest Warrant, Aff. of FBI Agent Matthew Hamel 
at 3, 7-9 (pp.3 and 7 show him squaring off with Officer Goodman, 
and pp. 8 and 9 show his posts), No. 1:21-mj-00098-RMM (Filed 
Jan. 17, 2021), https:/ /extremism.gwu.ed u/sites/g/files/zaxdzs2191/f/ 
Michael%20Sparks%20Statement%20of%20Facts.pdf . 
185. Elizabethtown man charged in connection with Capitol riot 
arrested, WDRB Media, Jan. 19, 2021, https://www.wdrb.com/ 
news/el iza bethtown-ma n-cha rg ed-in-con n ection-with-ca pito 1-riot­
a rrested/a rticle 9fbf930e-5a9e-11eb-a34e-4be2c1765664.html . 
186. Win MacNamee, Congress Holds Joint Session To Ratify 2020 
Presidential Election, Getty Images, Jan. 6, 2021, no. 1294932395 . 
187. Emphasis added. J SR, YouTube, Jan. 8, 2021, "Is this 
the Senate zip tie guy? (Possible Male 111)," https:/ /youtu.be/ 
47 m8x3JfTkXIU at 1:38. This is indeed Eric Gavelek Munchel. 
NewsChannel 5, YouTube, Jan.11, 2021, "FBI arrests 
Nashville zip-tie suspect from assault on U.S. Capitol," 
www.youtube.com/watch7v=nHFBXpA6gyo . 
188. Eric Munch el cell phone video, (January 6, 2020) at 8:12, at 
https:/ /ffrf.o rg/u ploads/vid eo/ Ja n6 Videos/Eric-Mun che 1%202 021-
01-06%20Down loaded%202021-01-08 400%20GST.mp4 _ 
189. Id. at 14:10. 
190. Gvt's brief in support of pretrial detention, U.S. v. Munchel (M.D. 
Tenn. 2021) (3:21-mj-2668), at 7, https://storage.courtlistener.com/ 
reca p/gov.usco u rts.tn md.8 502 5/gov.uscou rts.tn md.8 502 5.8.0.pdf. 
191. Id. at 8. 
192. Id. at 16. 
193. January 6: Inside the Capitol Siege, NPR, Jan. 15, 2021, 
www.npr.org/transcripts/957362053 . 
Appendix C 
1. Hawley has expressed no contrition for encouraging the mob. 
Colby ltkowitz, GOP Sen. Hawley says he does not regret raising 
fist to pro-Trump mob at Capitol on Jan. 6, Wash. Post (May 4, 2021), 
wapo.st/31fsj6G . 
2. Eugene Scott, Rick Saccone's accusation that the left hates 
God may be more alienating than compelling, Wash. Post, Mar. 14, 
2018, wapo.st/3JcnKeN . 
3. Friendly Atheist, Rick Saccone rioter, YouTube (Jan. 6, 2021), 
https://youtu.be/MJ7hlenwzOO . 
4. Lindsey Williams, Twitter (Jan. 6, 2021), https://twitter.com/ 
SenWilliamsPA/status/1346962826217316353 (recording of original 
post by Rick Saccone). 
5. H.R. 535, Pa. Gen. Assembly (2011-12), Jan. 23, 2012. 
6. H.R. 498, Pa. Gen. Assembly (2011-12), Nov. 3, 2011. 
7. H.R. 17, Pa. Gen. Assembly (2013-14), Jan. 14, 2013. 
8. H.R. 306, Pa. Gen. Assembly (2013-14), referred to Comm. 
on Ed., May 7, 2013; H.R. 774, Pa. Gen. Assembly (2015-16), Apr. 
5, 2016, (with misleading and false assertions such as, "Religious 
faith ... has also been acknowledged and incorporated into all 
three branches of American FederalGovernment from their very 
beginning"). 
9. From 2011 through 2016. 
10. Saccone sponsored the National Motto Display Act, H.B. 1728, 
Pa. Gen. Assembly (2013-14), referred to Comm. on Ed.; but by the 
next session he had become a bit more savvy and gathered other 
support for the National Motto Display Act, H.B. 1640, Pa. Gen. 
Assembly (2015-16), second consideration (Senate) (Oct. 25, 2016), 
and it actually passed the House, but stalled in the Senate. 
11. Project Blitz Playbook, Report and Analysis on Religious 
Freedom Measures Impacting Prayer and Faith in America at 10, 
Congressional Prayer Caucus Foundation, 2018-19 Ed., 
www.au.org/sites/d efa u lt/fi les/2 019-01/Pro ject%2 OBI itz%2 0 
Playboo k%2 02 018-19. pdf. 
12. Project Blitz adopted its name on its own, but has since 
changed it. The playbooks can be found at www.blitzwatch.org/ .  13. Rick Saccone, Rick for LG Intro, You Tube (Sept. 8, 2021), 
https:/ /yo utu. be/Edd IA Rh q B28. 
14. Peter Montgomerey, Trumpist State Sen. Doug Mastriano Is 
Preparing for God's Call to Run for Governor of Pennsylvania, Right 
Wing Watch (May 11, 2021), bit.ly/3w6CLeh . 
15. Ryan Deto, Sen. Mastriano and former state rep. Saccone 
among Trump supporters who occupied U.S. Capitol, Pittsburgh City 
Paper (Jan. 6, 2021), bit.ly/3KUTFE . 
16. Eliza Griswold, A Pennsylvania Lawmaker and the Resurgence 
of Christian Nationalism, The New Yorker (May 9, 2021), 
bit.ly/35PmHmJ . 
17. Esther 9. 
18. Eliza Griswold, A Pennsylvania Lawmaker and the Resurgence 
of Christian Nationalism. 
19. Id. 
20. Peter Montgomerey, Trumpist State Sen. Doug Mastriano Is 
Preparing for God's Call to Run for Governor of Pennsylvania. 
21. Rally on Electoral College Vote Certification (Jan. 6, 2021), 
bit.ly/3g1bbLS . 
22. Pennsylvania Spotlight, Doug Mastriano Threatened New 
Yorker Journalist Ahead of Damning Expose (May 9, 2021), 
bit.ly/3w4 V7wg. 
23. Eliza Griswold, A Pennsylvania Lawmaker and the Resurgence 
of Christian Nationalism. 
24. Id. 
25. Id. 
26. Paul Rosenberg, Trump's army of God: Doug Mastriano and 
the Christian nationalist attack on democracy, Salon (June 12, 2021), 
bit.ly/3CMcxix/ . 
27. Id. 
28. See Seidel, The Founding Myth. 
29. Right Side Broadcasting, Jericho March LIVE from Washington, 
DC, Facebook (Dec. 12, 2020), at 04:31:20, www.facebook.com/ 
rsbnetwork/videos/188101792958083/ . 
30. Id. 
31. Id. at 4:34:07. 
32. See, e.g., Pennsylvania Spotlight, Doug Mastriano Threatened 
New Yorker Journalist Ahead of Damning Expose. 
33. Kimberly Winston, The History Behind The Christian Flags 
Spotted At The Pro-Trump U.S. Capitol 'Coup,' Religion Unplugged 
(Jan. 6, 2021), bit.ly/3MPbcw2 . 
34. For more on the flag, see, lshaan Jhaveri, The Pine Tree flag: 
How one symbol at the Capitol riot connects far-right extremism 
to Christianity, Tow Center for Digital Journalism at Columbia's 
Graduate School of Journalism (Feb. 24, 2021), bit.ly/3g82clH ; 
See also Ashton Pittman, 'To Rule History With God': The Christian 
Dominionist War On Abortion, Part I, Mississippi Free Press (Jan. 22, 
2022), https://bit.ly/3CMGWgw : 
"It's not just an American flag, although it was used in our 
history. It's really a kingdom flag," said Sheets, referring to the 
biblical kingdom of God. He wore a U.S. Marshals pin on his 
chest. Atop a transparent, acrylic podium in front of him sat a 
folded-up Appeal to Heaven flag and a large wooden gavel. 
He told the audience that a U.S. marshal he met had given him 
48 the pin and recounted a dream in which God raised up "an 
army of special forces." 
"We're always supposed to have been wearing these 
badges and slamming these gavels, because that's who we 
represent: the ultimate judge and the king," Sheets told the 
crowd, banging the gavel into the podium. He said God had 
revealed to him a year earlier that the early days of the Trump 
administration would experience 10 months of turbulence 
followed by three years of a national "turnaround" back to God. 
35. Sen. Jason Rapert press release, "State Legislators from 18 
Individual States form National 'Appeal to Heaven,' Legislative 
Caucus" (July 24, 2015), bit.ly/35YPJQI ; see also https://bit.ly/3IaK1br . 
36. See, e.g., Jason Rapert, Twitter (Mar. 12, 2021, 5:47 a.m.), 
https://twitte r.com/ja son rape rt/status/1370340721379659782 ; 
Jason Ra pert, America Under Attack-the Battle for The Soul of Our 
Nation, Holy Ghost Ministries (Jan. 9, 2021), bit.ly/3N3ROvw. 
37. Jordan Klepper interviewed this ranting fellow for the Daily 
Show on Comedy Central; on.cc.com/3tdtVJW at 2:50. 
38. LifeSite, EXCLUSIVE: Man who entered Capitol tells his story 
to LlfeSiteNews (Jan. 6, 2021), bit.ly/3N4UFo3 at 4:15. 
39. THV11, Sen. Cotton says mob who stormed Capitol should 
'face full extent of the law' (Jan. 6, 2021), bit.ly/3I8jAmV. 
40. Jason Ra pert, "LIVE NOW: Nashville bombing. Stop the steal. 
January 6th. Stand up for God and Country,'' Face book live video 
stream (Dec. 27, 2020), bit.ly/34JmgcS . 
41. Id. at 2:08. 
42. Id. at 2:40. 
43. Id. at 4:54. 
44. Id. at 5:05. 
45. Id. at 8:30. 
46. Id. at 11:40. 
47. Id. at 12:30. 
48. Id. at 16:48. 
49. Id. at 18:06. 
50. Id. at 21:51. 
51. Her website says she left her "music career years ago, to 
embrace a ministry call, [which] enables my life to be that song that 
sings to expand the Kingdom of Jesus Christ." http://terrilynnweaver. 
com/Terri Lynn Weaver/About Me.html. 
52. Natalie Allison and Yue Stella Yu, Worst since the 'British 
burned the Capitol': Rep. Jim Cooper, staff describe chaotic scene 
in D.C., The Tennessean (Jan. 6, 2021), bit.ly/37zkL24 . 
53. Terri Lynn Weaver, Twitter (Jan. 6, 2021, 5:41 p.m.), 
bit.ly/36IeEOa . 
54. Chris Gregory, Terri Lynn Weaver among those at U.S. Capitol 
demonstrations, Hartsville Vidette (Jan. 14, 2021), bit.ly/37yHyeg . 
Screenshot of original post: https://assets.change.org/photos/4/yg/ 
de/BlygDEmvNEAEepy-800x450-noPad.jpg71610132388 . 
55. HB2778, Tenn. Gen. Assembly (June 2020). 
56. HJR0150, Tenn. Gen. Assembly (April 2021). 
57. HB 0026, Tenn. Gen. Assembly (May 2017).  58. See, e.g., 
https://twitter.com/T erriLyn nWeave r/statu s/114115764304 7854080 ; 
https://twitter.com/TerriLynnWeaver/status/220643225717841921 ; 
https://twitter.com/T erriLyn nWeave r/statu s/17225131042 . 
59. Terri Lynn Weaver, Twitter (Nov. 11, 2017, 8:03 a.m.), 
https://twitter.com/T erriLyn nWeave r/statu s/92 9348878754 775040. 
60. Terri Lynn Weaver, Facebook (Nov. 12, 2009), bit.ly/3tnxFc5 . 
61. Jeff Woods, State Rep. Weaver Defends 'Aunt Jemima' Picture, 
Nashville Scene (Nov. 2, 2010), bit.ly/3tfZiU0 . 
62. Originally posted on Weaver's Facebook page, 
but since deleted. Original at www.facebook.com/ 
RepresentativeTerriLynnWeaver/posts/10164482272620026/ . 
A screenshot appears in Shari Rose, Terri Lynn Weaver: TN 
Lawmaker at Pro-Trump Capitol Attack Jan. 6, Blurred Bylines 
(January 13, 2021), bit.ly/3CPVah2 . 
63. Derrick Evans, WV Needs Legislators to Fight for Christian 
Values (Archived campaign platform}, The Herald Dispatch, (Oct. 
20, 2020), http://bit.ly/38xg0U7. More on his Christian Nationalism : 
64. Hemant Mehta, Anti-Gay, Anti-Abortion WV GOP Lawmaker 
Resigns After Arrest for Capitol Siege, Friendly Atheist-Patheos (Jan. 
10,2021), bit.ly/3idiAU2 . 
Video is here: u/GrosMichel-4011, REDDIT (Jan. 6, 2021 3:29 p.m.), 
Delegate Derrick Evans breaking into the United States Capitol, 
bit.ly/3Jf1Tov . 
65. Sam Haines, WV Republican Delegate Derrick Evans federally 
charged for involvement in storming U.S. Capitol, 12WBOY (Jan. 8, 
2021), bit.ly/3tT7YyY. 
66. Brad McElhinny, Former councilman is the latest West 
Virginian charged in Jan. 6 Capitol mob, Metro News West Virginia, 
(Mar. 3, 2021), 
https:/ /wvmetro news.com/2 021/03/03/fo rme r-co u ncil man-is-the­
latest-west-virg in ia n-cha rg ed-in-ja n-6-ca p itol-mo b/. 
67. Freedom From Religion Foundation, Investigate Christian 
Nationalist WVa. official's involvement in Capitol insurrection (News 
Release), Jan. 14, 2021, bit.ly/3u0GtUb . 
68. Evan Bevins, Parkersburg City Councilman Eric Barber leaves 
Democratic party, The Parkersburg News and Sentinel (Oct. 
13, 2017), www.newsandsentinel.com/news/local-news/2017/10/ 
parkersburg-city-councilman-eric-barber-leaves-democratic-party/ . 
69. Evan Bevins, Councilman blasted for coat hanger comment, 
The Parkersburg News and Sentinel (Oct. 8, 2018), 
www.newsandsentinel.com/news/local-news/2018/10/councilman­
blasted-for-coat-hanger-comment/ . 
70. Brad McElhinny, Former councilman is the latest West 
Virginian charged in Jan. 6 Capitol mob. 
71. Nicole Maxwell, Cowboys For Trump rally scaled back to 
"ride" in Otero County, Alamogordo Daily News (Mar. 23, 2020), 
bit.ly/3icLZNT. 
72. Jessica Onsurez, Cowboys for Trump founder, Couy Griffin: 
'The only good Democrat is a dead Democrat', Alamogordo Daily 
News-USA Today, (May 20, 2020), bit.ly/3IfRTbV. 
73. Video available at 
d2hxwnssg7ss7g.cloudfront.net/Rp3grB15ypiE cvt.mp4 
74. Otero County, Otero County Special Meeting January 14, 2021, 
YouTube(Jan. 14, 2021), bit.ly/3CLN7Sc at 1:02:40. 
49 75. Id. at 7:25. 
76. Id. at 1:02:40. 
77. Id. at 1:08:45. 
78. Id. at 1:12:41. 
79. Nicole Maxwell, Cowboys for Trump founder returns to Otero 
County Commission after arrest following Capitol riot, Alamogordo 
Daily News-USA Today (Feb 12, 2021), https://bit.ly/37B2Yrl . 
Otero County, Otero County Commission Meeting February 
11, 2021, You Tube (Feb. 11, 2021) at 1:57:45, https://youtu.be/ 
w78hzjNYaXl7t=7064 . 
80. Id. at 1:59:40. 
81. Id. at 2:00:43. 
82. Nathan O'Neal, 4 Investigates questions Cowboys for Trump 
founder about Capitol riot, KOB 4 (Feb. 11, 2021), 
www.kob.com/new-mexico-news/4-investigates-guestions­
cowboys-for-tru mp-founder-about-ca pito l-riot-/6010069/ . 
83. Inside Edition, Protester Says He's Not Sorry for Assault on 
Capitol, YouTube(Jan. 11, 2021), bit.ly/3KOaNYO . 
84. Gregory S. Schneider, Virginia senator who called U.S. Capitol 
rioters 'patriots' is censured, Wash. Post (Jan. 27, 2021), 
wapo.st/3tZEeOT. 
85. Laura Vozzella, Defeated Va. gubernatorial candidate 
Amanda Chase loses bid to overturn state Senate censure, 
Wash. Post (May 13, 2021), wapo.st/34Ozyo8 . 
86. Amanda Chase, (11-3-16) Cut to the Chase Radio w/ Senator 
Amanda Chase, YouTube (Nov. 5, 2016), available at www.youtube. 
com/watch7v=OG82aooB0CA at 4:58. 
87. Amanda Chase, (10/5/18) Cut to the Chase Radio w/ Senator 
Amanda Chase, YouTube (Oct. 6, 2018), 
https://youtube.com/watch7v=lapsMtgforU at 1:57. 
88. Id. 
89. Amanda Chase, (5/11/18) Cut to the Chase Radio w/ Senator 
Amanda Chase, YouTube (June 21, 2018), 
https://youtube.com/watch7v=JHRpfcnYXUU at 8:20. 
90. Paul Egan and Clara Hendrickson, Activist who organized 
buses to DC about to take Mich. GOP role, Detroit Free Press 
(Jan. 7, 2021), bit.ly/3KOckOy. 
91. Steve Neavling, How a Michigan couple radicalized the state's 
GOP and emboldened insurrectionists, Detroit Metro Times (Feb. 17, 
2021), bit.ly/37mYV1x . 
92. Meshawn Maddock, Twitter (Nov. 15, 2020, 6:54 p.m.), 
https://twitte r.com/CoCha irMeshawn/status/1328139231785529344 . 
93. Malachi Barrett, GOP activists ask God, demand lawmakers 
deliver Arizona-style audit of Michigan's 2020 election, MLive 
(June 17, 2021), bit.ly/3CU49Oc. 
94. Id. See also MLive, Republican activists demand audit of 
Michigan 2020 election, YouTube, 
https:/ /yo utu be.co m/watch7v=6Xovwn BxAM k. 
95. Tim Rockey, Wasilla Rep Eastman part of Electoral College 
protest on the Capitol, Anchorage Press (Jan. 6, 2021), bit.ly/3w7riLt. 
96. James Brooks, Leaked list shows Alaska state Rep. David 
Eastman is a 'lifetime member' of a leading Capitol-riot group, 
Anchorage Daily News (Oct. 21, 2021), https://ktoo.org/2021/10/21/ 
david-eastma n-mem ber-oath keepers-m ii itia/  97. David Eastman, Senators Attack Trump's Nominee with 
Connections to Alaska: Declare Christion Beliefs Make You unfit For 
Public Office (June 10, 2017), bit.ly/3idiawF . 
98. Rep. David Eastman, Facebook (Aug. 10, 2021), 
https:/ /www.facebook.com/d eastma n jr/photos/272 0992311380723/ . 
99. Andrew Kitchenman, Rep. Eastman becomes first Alaska 
House member to be censured, Alaska Public Media & KTOO -
Juneau (May 10, 2017), 
https:/ /a las ka pu bl ic.o rg/2017 /0 5/10/rep-ea stma n-beco mes-first­
a la ska-house-member-to-be-censured/ and bit.ly/3CNfkZ1. 
100. See https://www.summit.org/progra ms/oxford-study-centre/ ; 
see also, e.g. bit.ly/3KJw6ec ; bit.ly/3CLwHZX . Summit Ministries also 
defended John Eastman's attempt to recreate a birth er movement 
against Vice President Kamala Harris. bit.ly/31dpvH5 . 
101. Edward Re Brook, IV, ReBrook: Behind the Veil -The Real 
David Eastman, The Midnight Sun (Feb. 1, 2022), 
https:/ /midnights u na k.com/2022/02/01/re brook-behind-the-veil-the­
rea 1-d avid-ea stma n/. 
102. Rick Pearson, Rep. Mory Miller apologizes for using Adolf 
Hitler reference in speech, but blames others for trying to twist her 
words, Chicago Tribune (Jan. 8, 2021), bit.ly/3icvgSm . 
103. See https://web.a rch ive.org/web/20210602214104/https:// 
marymillerforcongress.com/meet. 
104. See Mary Miller, Congressional Questionnaire, bit.ly/3g9Nj8K . 
105. Rick Pearson, Rep. Mory Miller apologizes for using Adolf 
Hitler reference in speech, but blames others for trying to twist 
her words. See also Mark Maxwell, Twitter (Jan. 7, 2021, 11:41 a.m.), 
https://twitter.com/Ma rkMaxwe I ITV /status/134 7236821512 69 5810. 
106. Mike Levine, GOP representative's husband distances himself 
from militia group ofter Jon 6. photos surface, ABC News (Feb. 
26, 2021), https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/gop-representatives-
h usba nd-d i sta nces-m ii itia-g ro u p-ja n-p hotos/sto ry?id= 76141439 . 
50 107. Sarah Mansur, Dems poss resolution condemning Republican 
lawmaker for attending Jon. 6 rally, Capitol News Illinois (Mar. 19, 
2021), https:/ /ca pito I news ii I inois.com/N EWS/dems-pass-reso I utio n­
co ndem n in g-rep u bl ica n-lawma ke r-for-attend in g-ja n-6-ra I ly. 
108. Jarold MacDonald-Evoy, Mork Finchem was much closer to 
the Jon. 6 insurrection than he claimed, AZ Mirror (June 2, 2021), 
https:/ /www.azmirror.com/2 021/06/02/ma rk-fin chem-was-much­
closer-to-th e-ja n-6-in su rrectio n-th an-he-claimed/ . 
109. Global TV Online, I/LIVE: STOP THE STEAL Coalition Pre-Rally 
at Freedom Plaza Ahead of Tomorrow's Big Events in DC, YouTube 
(Jan. 5, 2021) https://youtu.be/bE2-VnBd4ps at 3:55:50. 
110. Jarold MacDonald-Evoy, Mork Finchem was much closer to 
the Jon. 6 insurrection than he claimed. 
111. Dan Friedman, Twitter (Feb. 7, 2021, 9:12 a.m.), 
https://twitte r.co m/d fried man 33/statu s/13 58433482 8 84 73 9081. 
112. "@ali I'll be there! #stopthesteal #jerichomarch," Finchem 
wrote according to the Arizona Mirror. See 
https:/ /a zm irror.co m/2 021/02/10/the re-wou Id nt-have-been-a­
sto pthestea I-cam pa ig n-in-a rizo na-witho ut-ma rk-fi n che ml. 
113. Right Side Broadcasting, Jericho Morch LIVE from Washington, 
DC, Facebook (Dec. 12, 2020), 
https://facebook.com/rsbnetwork/videos/188101792958083/ at 
4:04:45 (national anthem). 
114. See https://votefinchem.com/wp-content/uploads/ 
2022/01/9A725E7F-05E2-434F-96DE-FD5B9D5CE8BC.jpeg . 
115. Howard Fischer, Mendez lambasted for comments during 
House prayer time, Arizona Capitol Times (Mar. 3, 2016), 
https:/ /a zca pito !times.co m/news/2 016/03/03/mend ez-la mbasted-fo r­
co mments-d u ring-house-prayer-time/ . 
116. Mark Fin chem, Representative Mork Finchem I Election 
Integrity and God's Command to Choose Wisely (Jan. 18, 2022), 
bit.ly/3tWe7dl . 