SECRET SERVICE ONLY 
December 30, 2020 
Protective Intelligence Brief 
Wild Protest 
Background 
Since the 2020 election, demonstrations have been organized nationwide advocating for President Trump 
and speaking out against the election results. In November 2020, a pro-Trump gathering in Washington, 
DC, resulted in an estimated 11,000 participants at Freedom Plaza, who marched to the Capitol and 
Supreme Court, and in December 2020, another pro-Trump gathering in Washington, DC, resulted in 
approximately 20,000 participants. The Pro-Trump protesters split between Freedom Plaza, the National 
Mall, and the Supreme Court, with some individuals marching from one place to another, while others 
stayed and protested in one spot. During each event, counter protests occurred, resulting in altercations 
and arrests. In both events combined, ten MPD police officers were assaulted, sustaining non-life 
threatening injuries. For additional information, please refer to the PIO After Action Talking Points the 
Million MAGA March After Action Nov 16 2020 (dhs.gov). Please refer to the PIO December 12 March for 
Trump (dhs.gov) for additional information regarding the December 20202 March. 
Individuals have continued to speak out against the 
2020 presidential election results, and pro-Trump 
supporters have begun to organize another large 
scale demonstration to occur on January 6, 2021, 
the day Congress is scheduled to certify the 
Electoral College vote for President-elect Joe Bi den. 
As momentum for the demonstrations increased, 
President Trump tweeted to encourage his 
supporters to come to DC and protest, writing, "Be 
there, will be wild!" Individuals chose this tagline -~"'.. Mf~/j;;,., ~--
0 0 0 MAR€Hfor 
L2rTRUMP 
il+ii fhii 1502113 iilldi Oiilhiiihll ilidhli 
JANUARY6TH 
WASHINGTON , DC 
THE PllESIDENT IS CALLING ON US TO COME 
BACK TO WASHINGTON ON JANUARY 6TH 
FOR A BIG PllOTEST -"BE THERE, Will BE WILD" 
Sfl(Clftc LOCAT>Ott& TIMl-TIA SOOH 
#MARCHFORTRUMP 
TRUMPMARCH.COM 
for the upcoming protest, naming it the "Wild Protest." The hashtag #WildProtest has been widely used 
to discuss and promote the event. President Trump tweeted again on December 27, 2020, promoting the 
protest. As of December 30, 2020, social media indicated 4,280 participants plan to attend, and an 
additional 12,621 are interested. 
1  Organizers 
Stop The Steal (NRID), Million MAGA March (NRID), Women for America First (NRID), March for Trump 
(NRID), Proud Boys (RID), and other pro-Trump groups, along with private citizens, have promoted event 
pages for the event. 
Stop The Steal is a loosely organized group which emerged on November 7, 2020, with the belief the 
election is being stolen from President Trump due to election fraud. The group began organizing 
demonstrations nationwide called "Stop The Steal." According to the website, invited speakers and 
featured guests for the January 6, 2021 event include Rep. Paul Gosar, Ali Alexander, Roger Stone, Rep­
Elect Marjorie Greene, Rep. Lance Gooden, Rep-Elect Lauren Boebert, State Rep. Vernon Jones, State Rep. 
Mark Finchem, State Sen. Doug Mastriano, State Rep. Anthony Kern, and several others. One 
spokesperson from Stop The Steal, Ali Alexander (NRID), has encouraged followers to bring tents, sleeping 
bags, food, and water. Alexander claimed, "if DC escalates ... so do we. Do not wear a mask. Stand with 
others bullied by staff." Twitter removed this tweet as it violated the spread of COVID-19 harmful 
information. 
The Million MAGA March has been involved in organizing both large protests in November and December. 
The website was created early November prior to the first Million MAGA March, which spurred several 
social media groups and pages supporting this movement. 
Women for America First is a pro-Trump, female led group. The group was the center of organization for 
both the November and December protests. The group plans to host a "March for Trump" bus tour from 
California to Washington, DC, arriving on the January 6, 20021. 
Although March for Trump is listed as a group, several different smaller factions are listed under this 
name. The group name is considered more of a movement than an organization. 
Proud Boys is a right-wing group founded in 2016 by Gavin Mcinnes as a "pro-Western fraternal 
organization." They are of record with USSS for demonstration activity since 2017; no civil disobedience 
or arrests were recorded. For more information on the Proud Boys, please see the Protective Intelligence 
Brief Proud Boys Talking Points. 
Hotel Harrington, an alleged hangout/hotel for the Proud Boys, made a statement on December 28, 2020, 
announcing their closure from January 4-6, 2021, for "safety of visitors and employees." According to 
news media, four individuals were stabbed outside the hotel during the protests on December 12, 2020, 
when Proud Boys members clashed with counter protesters. Proud Boys' self-proclaimed chairman, 
Enrique Tarrio (NRID), made a statement on Parler regarding the closing of Hotel Harrington, claiming the 
Proud Boys outgrew the hotel and were planning on protesting during that time and staying at various 
locations. 
2  Call to Protest 
On January 6, 2021, a consortium of private citizens and pro-Trump groups reportedly will host the Wild 
Protest in Washington, DC. The groups intend to demonstrate in support of President Trump and speak 
out against the 2020 election results. Numerous groups have claimed to be protesting at the US Capitol, 
with other groups protesting at the White House. 
#WeAreTheStorm, #1176Rebel, #OccupyCapitols have 
gained attention as the protest on January 6, 2021, 
approaches. With the argument that individuals were 
able to occupy other areas, including Black Lives Matter 
Plaza and the Capitol Hill Organized Protest/Capitol Hill 
Autonomous Zone, President Trump supporters have 
proposed a movement to occupy Capitol Hill. This 
movement is supported by Ali Alexander's video 
requesting individuals to bringing tents, food, sleeping 
bags, and water (which has received over 300 comments 
and 2.5K retweets). Individuals who cannot come to 
Washington, DC, are encouraged to occupy their local 
capitols. 
A website was located for chats and events related to 
the January 6th, 2021 DC Protest, Maga Drag the 
Interstate. Through this site, users are able to 
submit/create event caravan pages. There are currently 
511 members for the "Jan 6 DC Caravan Planning" group 
with 47 events starting from all over the United States. We're Camping in tents & 
Bring food and drinks1 
It will be Woodstock on Patriot steroids. 
DC running scared shutting Hotels and restaurants 
down won't phase us' 
@marklevinshow @seanhannity @realDonaldTrump 
10:02 AM· Dec 29, 2020 · Twitter for iPhone 
945 Ret.weets SO Quote Tweets 1.2K Likes 
From January 5, 2021, at 6:00 AM, to January 7, 2021, at 4:30 PM, the individual­
{NRID) will host a demonstration called "BTT heads to Washington DC for Trump Victory Rally" 
at the White House. The purpose of this event is to "rally for a Trump Victory." There is no 
indication of civil disobedience. According to Facebook, 7 people are going, and 25 are interested. 
From January 5, 2021, at 10:00 AM, to January 6, 2021, at 08:00 PM, the individual­
{NRID) will host a demonstration called "March on Congress Caravan" at pt St SE, Washington, 
DC. The purpose of the event is to caravan to Washington, DC, from Florida, and support the 
United States and free and fair elections. There is no indication of civil disobedience. According to 
Facebook, 5 people are going, and 5 are interested. 
On January 5, 2021, at 10:00 AM to January 7, 2021 at 2:00 AM, the group The First Heavy Metal 
Church of Christ {NRID) will host an event called, "Patriots Part 2020 in D.C." in Washington, DC. 
The group plans to caravan to DC, stay at the Grand Hyatt, and protest all day. The purpose of the 
event is to show support for the nation. There is no indication of civil disobedience. According to 
Facebook, 6 people are going, and 39 are interested. 
On January 5, 2021, at 10:00 PM, the individual {NRID) and the group New Jersey 
Patriot Events {NRID) will host a demonstration called "Washington DC 5th -6th Trip" at the 
3  National Mall. The purpose of the event is to support President Trump. There is no indication of 
civil disobedience. According to Facebook, 89 people are going, and 250 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at an unknown time, Proud Boys {RID) will host an unnamed demonstration 
in Washington, DC. The purpose of this demonstration is to join the other pro-Trump 
demonstrations. There was no indication of civil disobedience. The group advised they will not 
wear their traditional black and yellow attire, and will dress "incognito." The group self-reported 
plans to demonstrate in smaller groups throughout DC. Current numbers of planned participants 
were not indicated, but the group stated they will "turn out in record numbers." 
On January 6, 2021, at 1:00 AM, the individual {NRID) will host a demonstration 
called "We the people need transparency!" at the US Capitol. The purpose of the event is to 
"show up outside the senate in support of demanding our election is proven to be fair." There is 
no indication of civil disobedience. According to Facebook, 1 person is going, and 6 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, from 1:00 AM to 12:55 AM, the individual {NRID) and group 
Patriot Party of America {The Peoples Party) {NRID) will host a demonstration called "Million 
MAGA Strong" at the US Capitol. The purpose of the demonstration is to support President 
Trump. There is no indication of civil disobedience. According to Facebook, 3 people are going, 
and 14 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, from 4:00 AM to 11:45 PM, the individual will host a 
demonstration called "CANTON/AKRON ELECTION PROTEST BUS TRANSPORTATION {SOLD 
OUT)" at the US Capitol. The group plans on leaving Canton, OH, and demonstrating in 
Washington, DC. The purpose of the demonstration is to support President Trump. There is no 
indication of civil disobedience. According to Facebook, 59 people are going, and 182 are 
interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 5:30 AM, the individuals {NRID) and 
{NRID) will host a demonstration called "Jan 6th DC MAGA/KAG March-leaving from Fayetteville, 
NC" at the US Capitol. The group plans on arriving in Washington, DC, at 10 AM. The purpose of 
the demonstration is to support President Trump. There is no indication of civil disobedience. 
According to Facebook, 15 people are going, and 32 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 6:00 AM, the individuals {NRID) and 
{NRID) will host a demonstration called "#StopTheSteal Rally for America -Bus trip" in 
Washington, DC. The purpose of the demonstration is to petition Congress to follow the 
constitution and the will of the people. There is no indication of civil disobedience. According to 
Facebook, 21 people are going, and 30 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, from 6:00 AM to 11:00 PM, the individuals - {NRID) and -
- {NRID) will host a demonstration called "Fight for Trump van from Winston Salem 
NC to DC" in Washington, DC. The purpose of the demonstration is to march for President Trump. 
There is no indication of civil disobedience. According to Facebook, 28 people are going, and 91 
are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 7:00 AM, the group American Conservatism {NRID) will host a 
demonstration at the US Capitol called "March on Congress." The purpose of this demonstration 
4  is to speak out against election fraud and in support of President Trump. There was no indication 
of civil disobedience. Facebook currently indicates 799 people are going and 4.5K are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 7:00 AM, the group The Republican Mandate {NRID) will host a 
demonstration called "Wild Protest for Donald Trump" in Washington, DC. The purpose of the 
event is to demand the politicians to confirm Donald Trump as President. There is no indication 
of civil disobedience. According to Facebook, 76 people are going, and 116 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 07:00 AM, the group RI Warriors for Trump {NRID) will host a 
demonstration called "TRUMP RALLY DC" in Washington DC. The specific location has not been 
released. The purpose of the event is to "demand transparency and protect election integrity." 
There is no indication of civil disobedience. Post permissions for the group's discussion section 
have been turned off, hiding any discussions regarding the event from the public. According to 
Facebook, 10 people are going, and 17 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 7:00 PM, the group New Jersey Patriots Event Page {NRID) and the 
individual Dave Lightwalker {NRID) will host a demonstration called "Million MAGA March, 
March for Trump, StopTheSteal." The purpose of the demonstration is "President Trump has 
called for all of his supporters to be in Washington, D.C. January 6th -This will be the biggest 
protest in American History. The time to take a stand is now!" There is no indication of civil 
disobedience. According to Facebook, 660 people are going, and 1.9K are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, from 7:00 AM to 10:00 AM, the group Trumpaign {NRID) will host a 
demonstration called "March on Congress" at the US Capitol. The purpose of the event is to 
demand the politicians to confirm Donald Trump as President. There is no indication of civil 
disobedience. According to Facebook, 28 people are going, and 65 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, from 07:00 AM to 09:00 PM, the individual {NRID) will host 
a demonstration called "Support Trump MAGA .... " in Washington DC. The specific location has 
not been released. The purpose of the event is to show support for President Trump. There is no 
indication of civil disobedience. Post permissions for the group's discussion section have been 
turned off, hiding any discussions regarding the event from the public. According to Facebook, 1 
person is going and 1 is interested. 
On January 6, 2021, from 7:00 AM to 11:55 PM, the individual {NRID) 
and the group Focus on Forsyth Country GA {NRID) will host a demonstration called "MARCH FOR 
TRUMP" in Washington, DC. The purpose of the demonstration is to march for President Trump. 
There is no indication of civil disobedience. According to Facebook, 4 people are going, and 24 are 
interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 8:00 AM, the individuals- {NRID), {NRID), and 
{NRID) will host a demonstration called "March to D.C., Be There, Will Be 
Wild" at the US Capitol. The purpose of the demonstration is to march for President Trump. There 
is no indication of civil disobedience. According to Facebook, 57 people are going, and 163 are 
interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 8:00 AM, the individual {NRID) will host a 
demonstration called "Southern MD Stop the Steal MAGA March" at the National Mall. The 
5  purpose of this event is to support President Trump and not allow the liberals to steal the election. 
There is no indication of civil disobedience. According to Facebook, 29 people are going, and 43 
are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 8:00 AM, the individuals {NRID), {NRID), 
and We heart DJT {NRID) will host an event called "March For Trump" at Freedom Plaza. The 
purpose of the event is to stop the steal and march for President Trump. There is no indication of 
civil disobedience. According to Facebook, 14 people are going, and 30 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, from 8:00 AM to 11:55 PM, the individual {NRID) will 
host a demonstration called "Trumps MAGA rally stop the steal" in Washington, DC. The purpose 
of the demonstration is to support President Trump. There is no indication of civil disobedience. 
According to Facebook, 70 people are going, and 131 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, from 9:00 AM to 3:30 PM, the group Frederick County Conservative Club 
{NRID) will host a demonstration in Washington, DC, called "Million MAGA March." The purpose 
of this demonstration is to show support for President Trump. The group plans on arriving at 
Freedom Plaza from Frederick, MD, at 9:00 AM, and departing DC at 3:30 PM. There is no 
indication of civil disobedience. According to Facebook, 68 people are going, and 168 are 
interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 9:00 AM, the group ACActual Reality Report {NRID) will host a 
demonstration called "Fight for Trump Washington, D.C." The purpose of the demonstration is 
"President Trump invites you to Washington DC for a Wild Time (aka) Fight for your country." 
There is no indication of civil disobedience. According to Facebook, 28 people are going, and 45 
are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 9:00 AM, the individual {NRID) and group usTheSilent No 
MORE us {NRID) will host a demonstration called "FIGHT FOR PRESIDENT TRUMP & YOUR 
RIGHTS" in Washington, DC. The purpose of the demonstration is to support President Trump and 
let others know the people will not tolerate a fraudulent election. There is no indication of civil 
disobedience. According to Facebook, 1 person is going, and 2 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, from 9:00 AM to 06:00 PM, the group Prime Time Patriots {NRID) will host a 
demonstration called "MARCH FOR TRUMP" in 213 Pennsylvania Ave SE, Washington, DC. The 
purpose of the demonstration is to support President Trump. There is no indication of civil 
disobedience. According to Facebook, 67 people are going, and 367 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 9:00 AM, the individual {NRID) will host a demonstration 
called "Stand For Trump January 6th" in Washington, DC. The purpose of the demonstration is to 
support President Trump. There is no indication of civil disobedience. According to Facebook, 4 
people are going, and 7 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 9:00 AM, the group We Are Washington Page {NRID) will host a 
demonstration called "WA Patriots going to DC for the Million MAGA March on Jan 6th!" in 
Washington, DC. The purpose of the demonstration is to support President Trump. There is no 
indication of civil disobedience. According to Facebook, 31 people are going, and 56 are 
interested. 
6  On January 6, 2021, from 9:00 AM to 7:00 PM, the individual {NRID) will 
host a demonstration called "Calling all Patriots! We have been called to DC to the Nation's 
Capital for a Peaceful protest to save #America #StopTheSteal" in Washington, DC. The purpose 
of the demonstration is to support President Trump. There is no indication of civil disobedience. 
According to Facebook, 41 people are going, and 73 are interested. 
From January 6, 2021, at 9:00 AM to January 7, 2021, at 12:00 PM, the individual 
{NRID) will host a demonstration called "Patriot Protest March" in Washington, DC. The purpose 
of the event is to "protest the election fraud, tyranny and corrupt politicians." There is no 
indication of civil disobedience. According to Facebook, 5 people are going, and 11 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 9:00 AM, the individual {NRID) will host a demonstration 
called "Fight for Freedom Rally/Protest" at the US Capitol. The purpose of the event is to "protest 
against corruption, demanding transparent elections where our leaders are elected, not 
selected." There is no indication of civil disobedience. According to Facebook, 5 people are going, 
and 17 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 9:00 AM, the individual {NRID) will host a demonstration 
called "Patriot Gathering" in Washington, DC. The purpose of the event is to "join together on 
this day. In support of our election." There is no indication of civil disobedience. According to 
Facebook, 1 person is going, and 1 is interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 9:00 AM, private citizen l{NRID) will host a demonstration at the 
National Mall called "President Trump's Calling on Patriots to Protest in Washington D.C. 
January 6th @ the National Mall." The purpose of this demonstration is to join the pro-Trump 
demonstrations as a contingency from Texas. There was no indication of civil disobedience. 
According to Facebook, 85 people are going, and 86 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, from 10:00 AM to 5:00 PM, the individual {NRID) will host a 
demonstration called "Trump Rally Jan 6" in Washington, DC. The purpose of the event is to 
"come to DC Jan 6 when Congress counts electoral votes and objections are raised." There is no 
indication of civil disobedience. According to Facebook, 60 people are going, and 108 are 
interested. 
On January 6, 2021, from 10:00 AM to 4:00 PM, the group Stop the Steal {NRID) will host a 
demonstration at the US Capitol called "Wild Protest." The purpose of this demonstration is to 
speak out against the 2020 presidential election results. There is no indication of civil 
disobedience. Current numbers of planned participants is unavailable at this time. 
On January 6, 2021, at 10:00 AM, the group Scranton Tea Party {NRID) will host a demonstration 
called "Trump Washington Event" at the White House. The purpose of the demonstration is to 
support President Trump. There is no indication of civil disobedience. According to Facebook, 8 
people are going, and 37 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 10:00 AM, the individua {NRID) will host a demonstration 
called "COVID+ Freedom March" in Washington, DC. The purpose of the demonstration is to 
support President Trump. There is no indication of civil disobedience. According to Facebook, 109 
people are going, and 198 are interested. 
7  On January 6, 2021, at 10:00 AM, the individual- {NRID) will host a demonstration 
called "Protest for Trump on Jan 6" at the US Capitol. The purpose of the demonstration is to 
support President Trump. There is no indication of civil disobedience. According to Facebook, 8 
people are going, and 5 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 11:00 AM, the individuals- {NRID) and {NRID) 
will host a demonstration called "Fight for Trump" at the US Capitol. The purpose of the 
demonstration is to support President Trump. There is no indication of civil disobedience. 
According to Facebook, 6 people are going, and 13 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 11:00 AM, the individuals {NRID) will host a 
demonstration called "Stop The Steal Jan 6 Capitol Hill" at First St NE, Washington, DC. The 
purpose of the demonstration is to support President Trump. There is no indication of civil 
disobedience. According to Facebook, 375 people are going, and 2.7K are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 11:00 AM, the individual (NRID) and the group THE BASKET OF 
DEPLORABLE (NRID) will host an event called "Jan 6th D.C. Maga March" in Washington, DC. The 
purpose of the event is to join "the largest Maga March Ever!" There is no indication of civil 
disobedience. According to Facebook, 10 people are going, and 19 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 12:00 PM, the group Eat Pray Kill {NRID) will host a demonstration called 
"Election Fraud and Electoral College Protest" at First St NE, Washington, DC. The purpose of the 
demonstration is to support President Trump. There is no indication of civil disobedience. 
According to Facebook, 4 person is going, and 11 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 12:00 PM, the group Fight for Freedom and Trump Rally {NRID) will host 
a demonstration called "Fight For Freedom Trump Rally" in Washington, DC. The purpose of the 
demonstration is to support President Trump. There is no indication of civil disobedience. 
According to Facebook, 3 person is going, and 5 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 12:00 PM, the group Washington State March for Trump in DC 01/06/2020 
{NRID) will host a demonstration called "MARCH FOR TRUMP" in Washington DC. The specific 
location has not been released. The purpose of the event is to show support for President Trump. 
There is no indication of civil disobedience. According to Facebook, there are O going, and 1 
interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 12:00 PM, the group Million MAGA March {NRID) will host a 
demonstration at the National Mall in Washington, DC, called "Million MAGA March -Round Ill." 
The purpose of this demonstration is to show support for President Trump and speak out against 
the election results. The group is utilizing hashtags #millionmagamarch, #millionmagamarch2021, 
and #stopthesteal. There was no indication of civil disobedience. Their website currently indicates 
1,090 people are going. 
On January 6, 2021, at 12:00 PM, the group Patriot Party {NRID) and private citizen­
{NRID) will host a demonstration at the US Capitol called "Patriots United March on Congress." 
The purpose of the demonstration is to speak out for election integrity while Congress meets to 
confirm the Electoral College votes. The group indicates plans to meet at the Capitol, but has not 
8  indicated potential routes. There is no indication of civil disobedience. According to Facebook, 34 
people are going, and 212 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 12:00 PM, the individual {NRID) and the group Eighty 
Percent Coalition {NRID) will host an event called "Rally to Save America" at Freedom Plaza. The 
purpose of the demonstration is to support President Trump. According to the website, confirmed 
speakers include Roger Stone, Julio Gonzalez, George Papadopoulos, Mark Burns, Greg Locke, and 
Bernard Kerik. There is no indication of civil disobedience. According to Facebook, 6 people are 
going, and 7 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 12:00 PM, the individual {NRID) and groups Virginia 
Women for Trump {NRID), Keep Georgia Red {NRID), TRUMPS FREEDOM FIGHTERS {NRID), 
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMPS SOLID SUPPORT WORLDWIDE {NRID), Women United for Trump 
{NRID), Trump/Pence Reelection Group {NRID), Trump Daily Report {NRID), TRUMP N The Next 
Four Years {NRID), and GA Women for Trump {NRID) will host a demonstration called "MARCH 
FOR TRUMP JANUARY 6TH WASHINGTON DC" in Washington, DC. The purpose of the 
demonstration is to support President Trump. There is no indication of civil disobedience. 
According to Facebook, 13 people are going, and 23 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 12:00 PM, an unknown group will host a demonstration titled "Operation 
Occupy The Capitol" in Washington, D.C. The purpose of the event is to "peacefully protest the 
election fraud." Participants are encouraged to protest at their state capitol if they are unable to 
travel to Washington D.C. There is no indication of civil disobedience at this time. The Twitter 
event hashtags are #WeAreTheStorm, #1776Rebel and #OccupyCapitols. Participant numbers are 
unknown as the event was located through flyer. 
On January 6, 2021, at 12:00 PM, the individual {NRID) and - {NRID) will 
host a demonstration called "Stop the Steal March #BeThere" in Washington, DC. The purpose 
of the event is to "make politicians listen." There is no indication of civil disobedience. According 
to Facebook, 192 people are going, and 732 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at an unknown time, the groups Women for America First {NRID) and March 
for Trump {NRID) will host a demonstration in Washington DC called "March for Trump." The 
purpose of this demonstration is to "demand transparency & protect election integrity." There is 
no indication of civil disobedience. Current numbers of planned participants are unavailable at 
this time. 
Counter Demonstrations 
There are several counter-demonstrations planned for January 6, 2021. OSB has observed less social 
media activity and chatter for these counter-demonstrations than during previous pro-Trump 
demonstrations. The themes emerging from social media chatter amongst the counter protestors is 
similar to the rhetoric espoused during prior protests; the groups are attempting to keep Proud Boys and 
other Pro-Trump groups out of Washington, DC. 
9  Several local groups have shared the news regarding Hotel Harrington closing from January 4-6, 2021, and 
have encouraged followers to contact other local hotels to encourage them to shut down as well. 
Although ShutDownDC (RID), All Out DC (RID), and Black Lives Matter DC (RID), have shared the news 
regarding Hotel Harrington on social media, they have not publicly announced any details regarding plans 
to protest. 
On January 6, 2021, at an unknown time, the group Refuse Fascism {RID) will host a 
demonstration in Washington, DC, called "Opposing Trump's Moves to Overturn the Election." 
The purpose of this demonstration is to speak out during the pro-Trump demonstrations. There 
is no indication of civil disobedience. Current numbers of planned participants are unknown at 
this time. 
On January 6, 2021, at an unknown time, the groups They Them Collective {RID), Total Liberation 
Collective {NRID), DC Protests {NRID), Good TroubleCo.op {NRID), Smash the Fash NOVA {NRID), 
and DC Youth Liberation Front/DCYLF {RID) will host a demonstration in Washington, DC, called 
"Alert: Terrorists in Town Jan 3-6, 17-23." The purpose of this demonstration is to counter 
demonstrate during the Proud Boys and Stop the Steal demonstrations. There is no indication of 
civil disobedience. Current numbers of planned participants are unknown at this time. 
On January 6, 2021, from 12:00 PM to 3:00 PM, the group I Approve This Message {NRID) will 
host a demonstration at the US Capitol Building called "Donald, You're Fired! March on DC." The 
purpose of the demonstration is to "witness this momentous occasion. Upon the declaration of 
the results of the 2020 elections, held on November 3rd, 2020, We the People will proceed, 
peacefully and safely, from the Capitol Building to the White House to deliver the message to Mr. 
Trump, Donald Trump, You're Fired!" There is no indication of civil disobedience. According to 
Facebook, 7 people are going, and 20 are interested. 
On January 6, 2021, at 1:00 PM, the groups Insurgence USA {NRID) and Protest Live {NRID) will 
host a demonstration in Washington, DC, called "No Fascist in DC -March Against Fascism." The 
group intends to meet at the Washington Monument. The purpose of this demonstration is to 
speak out against fascism. There is no indication of civil disobedience. According to Facebook, 7 
people are going, and 63 are interested. 
Refuse Fascism has demonstrated on numerous occasions at the White House and temporary protected 
sites. One demonstration in 2017, held near Trump Tower in New York City, ended with arrests for 
disorderly conduct and failure to obey. 
TheyThem Collective is of record for a demonstration at the White House in November 2020. The 
demonstration concluded without incident or arrest. 
DC Youth Liberation Front is of record with the USSS for a demonstration in August 2020 near Meridian 
Park. The group utilized sound equipment and MPD made several arrests for damaging 30 vehicles, 
destroying two police cruisers, defacing government property, setting fires, and breaking windows. 
ShutDownDC has demonstrated on numerous occasions in relation to social justice in Washington, DC, as 
well as outside Acting OHS Secretary Chad Wolf's home. A ShutDownDC demonstration on June 2, 2020, 
resulted in one arrest for possession of an imitation pistol and a BB gun. 
10  All Out DC is of record with the USSS for numerous demonstrations at the White House. During an All Out 
DC demonstration in June 2020, protestors were observed using fireworks, obstructing roads, and 
throwing debris at officers. M PDC used smoke to clear the area and the demonstration concluded with 
one arrest for threats. 
Black Lives Matter has demonstrated on numerous occasions at the White House and temporary 
protected sites. The group has previously used sound equipment. One demonstration on June 4, 2020, 
concluded with one arrest after gas cans and fireworks were observed inside a subject's vehicle. Two 
arrests were made during a demonstration on June 2, 2020, for possession of an imitation pistol and 
possession of a BB gun. 
Dark Web 
No organization efforts for events on January 6, 2021, have been identified on the dark web at this time. 
Road Closures 
MPDC has not made an official announcement regarding any road closures at this time. 
Assessment 
Many of the groups planning to engage in demonstration activities on January 6, 2021, are the same which 
participated in demonstration activities on November 14, 2020, and December 12, 2020, where clashes 
ensued between pro-Trump and anti-Trump supporters. As a result of the indicated participants, as well 
as an observed increase in social media chatter from protestors, PIO assesses while the majority of 
individuals will remain peaceful, clashes between demonstrating groups are likely. 
11 