1 
2 
3 
4 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE 
5 JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL, 
6 U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
7 WASHINGTON, D.C. 
8 
9 
10 
11 INTERVIEW OF: LANDON BENTLEY 
12 
13 
14 
15 Thursday, May 12, 2022 
Washington, D.C. 1 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 The interview in the above matter was held via Webex, commencing at 10:11 a.m.  1 
2 Appearances: 
3 
4 
5 For the SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE 
6 THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL: 
7 
8 
9 
10 , STAFF ASSOCIATE 
CHIEF CLERK 
INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 2  1 
2 Mr.~ We can go on the record at 10:10 this morning. 
3 Good morning. This is the transcribed interview of Mr. Landon Bentley 
4 conducted on May 12th, 2020, by the House Select Committee to Investigate the 
5 January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol pursuant to House Resolution 503. 
6 At this time, I'd ask the witness to please state your full name for the record and 
7 just spell your last name. 
8 Mr. Bentley. Landon Bentley. And it's B-e-n-t-1-e-y. 
9 
10 Mr Thank you. 
As I explained earlier, I'll be leading most of this discussion. So it's a staff-led 
11 deposition. But as we also discussed, members of the committee have the option to 
12 join and listen in and might also have some follow-up questions for you. 
13 What I'll do is, if anybody else joins the call, I'll let you know. Right now it's 
14 basically just you and me, but if anybody else joins, I'll let you know that they're on the 
15 call as well. 
16 How does that sound? 
17 
18 Mr. Bentley. That sounds good. 
Mr.~ Great. And then I'll note for the record this is a transcribed 
19 interview, and you are here voluntarily, and we have discussed that. And I'll also note 
20 that you don't have counsel present today. 
21 So I'll ask that you answer all my questions, but if there's a topic that you are 
22 concerned about, we're happy to go off the record and discuss that with you and figure 
23 out if we're going to answer those questions or not. 
24 
25 Mr. Bentley. Okay. 
Mr~ Just kind of a few housekeeping things to discuss. 3  1 I mentioned that we have some official reporters on the line who are going to be 
2 transcribing everything that we say today. So one thing to keep in mind, just to make 
3 their job a little bit easier, is to make sure you let me finish my question before you start 
4 answering, because it just gets very hard for them to transcribe two people talking at the 
5 same time. 
6 Does that make sense? 
7 
8 Mr. Bentley. Yes, sir. 
Mr~ Okay. And then sort of also in the same vein, especially since we 
9 don't have video on today, we'll need you to use verbal responses to questions. So like 
10 a head shake or an "uh-huh" are difficult to record. You can't record that on a 4 
11 transcript. So I might remind you, if I hear you use kind of a nonverbal response --we all 
12 do that in conversation --just to give me something that the reporters can transcribe. 
13 And then today our goal here and what I'm asking of you is just to provide 
14 complete answers based on the best of your recollection. Obviously, a lot of the 
15 evidence I'll be talking with you about happened more than a year ago, and so our 
16 memories get a little bit fuzzy. 
17 Feel free to just let me know if you just don't recall the answer to a question, or if 
18 you're like ballparking a figure, a date, or a number, that's fine. That happens all the 
19 time. It's just helpful to let me know that you're doing that. 
20 And our intention here really is not to kind of trip you up on any minute details. 
21 I'm not really concerned with whether or not the car was red or was fuchsia. 
22 Just whatever kind of your best recollection is of the thing I'm asking you about is going to 
23 be totally fine today. 
24 Does that all make sense? 
25 Mr. Bentley. Yes, sir, it does.  5 
1 Mr~ Okay. And then, along the same lines, feel free to tell me that you 
2 don't remember something. Also, if you don't understand my question --I don't always 
3 ask the most clear question --so always feel free to ask me to restate a question or clarify 
4 something. I don't want you to answer any questions if you're not sure what I'm asking 
5 about. 
6 And then the last thing I'll warn you about --and this is a warning that we provide 
7 to all witnesses that we talk to --because I'm congressional investigator and this is a 
8 congressional investigation, I need to let you know that it's unlawful to deliberately 
9 provide false information to Congress. And so for this interview, providing false 
10 information could result in criminal penalties under the False Statements Act. 
11 And, again, those are deliberate statements. I understand we misremember 
12 things or might get things slightly wrong. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking 
13 about a deliberate false statement. And I don't think we're going to have any issues 
14 with that, but I just want to make sure you understand that that law applies to our 
15 discussion today. 
16 
17 
18 Mr. Bentley. Yes, sir, I do. 
Mr.~ Okay. Great. 
And then --actually, sorry one other kind of housekeeping matter. I'm happy to 
19 take breaks whenever you want for any reason. So if you need a bathroom break or just 
20 to get some water or something like that, feel free to let me know. 
21 I hope that we'll just be chatting for about an hour, maybe two at the most. And 
22 so I'll take a break at about an hour if we're still going by then. But if you need a break 
23 at another time, just let me know.  1 
2 
3 
4 Q EXAMINATION 
BYMR.-: 
Okay. Well, with all of that taken care of, let's just start with a little bit of 
5 background information about you, Mr. Bentley. 
6 Can you first tell me how old you are? 
7 A I'm 36. 
8 Q And then if you could just take me through sort of your educational and 
9 professional background [inaudible]. 
10 A I've only got some college. I was in the Army National Guard. I went to 
11 Iraq. Came back, did a few things. I was an instructor for a while, combat engineer 
12 reclass course. I was in recruiting for a while. 
13 And then I got out and got into the car business, working at different dealerships 
14 or doing advertising, something like that. 
15 
16 That's about it really, man. I mean, I've done mostly the same thing all my life. 
Q Sure. And, sorry, maybe it's my connection, but you cut out a little bit 
17 before you were talking about the car business. What was the position you were 
18 describing before that? 
19 
20 
21 A 
Q 
A Recruiting. 
Okay. And where were you doing the recruiting? 
All over. I started in Portsmouth, Ohio, and then I went to Maysville, 
22 Kentucky, and went to Florence, Kentucky, and Independence, Kentucky. And they 
23 transferred me around. I ended up helping out with Northern Kentucky University 
24 ROTC. 
25 Q Okay. 6  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 A But it was all under recruiting. 
Q Was it recruiting for, sorry, for what? 
A The Army National Guard. 
Q Okay. Got it. That's what I missed. There you go. 
And are you still associated or enrolled in the Army National Guard? 
A No, sir. 
Q Okay. And when you were doing recruiting for the Army National Guard, 
8 you were, I guess, a member of the Guard? 
9 
10 
11 A Yeah. 
Q Okay. Got it. 
And then, other than recruiting, you mentioned some other training. What was 
12 that again? 
13 A I had a few different jobs while I was in. I mean, when I first joined, I went 
14 to Iraq, and I was a lead gunner in Baghdad. 
15 
16 Q Okay. 
A And then I came home. I was a reclass course instructor for a little while 
17 for a combat engineer reclass course. 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 Q When was that deployment that you mentioned? 
A 2005 to 2007. 
Q Okay. And is that --that's your only deployment? 
A Yes, sir. 
Q Where were you when you were deployed? 
A In Baghdad, Iraq. 
Q All right. Great. Okay. 
So then after your time in the National Guard and you transition to the recruiting 7  1 side of things, then have you been in Kentucky since then? 
2 
3 
4 A I've have. I have. 
Q And did you grow up in Kentucky before that? 
A No, no, sir. I grew up in --well, I went to Kendrick. I grew up until first 
5 grade elementary school in Lewis County, Kentucky, and then we moved to Ohio, and I 
6 ended up graduating school in Wheelersburg, Ohio. 
7 Q Got you. And then you moved back to Kentucky sometime after the Army 
8 National Guard? 
9 A Well, I was still in the National Guard. I was a recruiter in Kentucky, and 
10 that's where I met my ex-wife, and we lived in Kentucky, and I still do now. 
11 
12 Q Understood. Got it. Okay. 
All right. Well, I think that's enough sort of background about you. I'd like to 
13 move forward to when you first met Mr. Stewart Rhodes. Can you tell me about that? 8 
14 A Yes, sir. It was during the Breanna Taylor riot in Louisville, Kentucky. And 
15 he showed up. I was down there. They asked me to come. We spoke briefly. We 
16 were never close. 
17 But I kind of made fun of his --he had tight pants on, and I made fun of him a little 
18 bit, and he made fun of me. And that was about it really. 
19 Q Were these --I know there were a couple different periods of First 
20 Amendment protests and civil unrest in Louisville. Were these in July or the September 
21 riots? 
22 A I can't remember months, sir, to be honest with you. I know that it was hot 
23 outside. 
24 
25 Q Okay. Got it. 
A So I would guess July, but I don't know that for a fact.  1 
2 Q 
A I think that sounds right based on what we've heard from other witnesses. 
Well, it was during the time when they shot two cops that night, if you 9 
3 remember that. 
4 Q Yeah. And so you said that you were asked to come to Louisville. How 
5 did that happen? How did they make contact with you, either Mr. Rhodes or other Oath 
6 Keepers? 
7 A Well, what happened was I was sitting at home and I was watching the news. 
8 And it was when they took over the --I think it was called the CHAZ, the police station, 
9 and they had that area cordoned off for themselves. And I was sitting at home watching 
10 the lawlessness and just thought, well, maybe I could go help some of these officers. 
11 So I was looking online, and I found the Three Percenters, started --I got on some 
12 sort of forum with them. I'm not a big technical guy. I don't use social media and 
13 things of that sort. They were just --you know, everybody was on there talking about 
14 drinking and talking bad about the Democrats and stuff. And that's not what I'm about. 
15 I had one person --I can't remember who it is --but I had one person reach out to 
16 me while I was on the Three Percenters' forum asking me if I've heard of the Oath 
17 Keepers. And that's how I found out about the Oath Keepers. I didn't even know they 
18 existed. And I joined the Oath Keepers. 
19 
20 
21 Q 
A 
Q Okay. And so you just did --go ahead. 
No, go ahead, sir, I'm sorry. 
No. That's all right. And I was just confirming, actually, the shootings of 
22 the police officers that you were talking about in Louisville were the September riots. 
23 So I think we're talking about September 2020. 
24 And so you found the Oath Keepers through this online forum. And then did you 
25 just join online through their --that application process on line?  10 
1 A I did. At the time that I joined the Oath Keepers, I had never met an Oath 
2 Keeper or knew anything about them really. 
3 Q Okay. And what were the things that kind of attracted you to that 
4 organization as opposed to others? 
5 A Well, I'm not a militia guy, and it seemed like the right thing to do being that 
6 it was ex-military and law enforcement. And I thought, man, that's a great organization, 
7 I'd like to be part of it. 
8 Q What was the --can you just describe the application process for me? 
9 A It was on line. I think I had to talk about my service a little bit and fill out 
10 something. And then I had to pay $50. And I got a certificate and a little card in the 
11 mail saying that I was a member. 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 Q And did you ever, at any point, pay any other dues or membership fees? 
A No, sir, that was it. It was $50. 
Q Okay. 
A And if I could, I would take it back, but I just can't. 
Q All right. So then at some point I think you said that somebody asked you 
17 to come to Louisville to participate in some of the Oath Keepers' activities during those 
18 events in September. Do you know who reached out to you, or do you remember? 
19 A The first person that ever reached out to me from the Oath Keepers, his 
20 name was Rob Dutort. 
21 
22 Q Okay. 
A And he reached out to me shortly after I signed up and wanted to meet with 
23 me. And he said he had been talking to Stewart and they had some protests coming up 
24 in Grayson, Kentucky. And these law enforcement officers were asking for help. They 
25 didn't know what to expect. They would see the burnt down buildings and all the civil  1 unrest. And, unfortunately, they were being called heroes instead of being called 
2 criminals. 
3 
4 
5 Q Sorry. Can you spell Rob's last name for me? 
A I believe it's D-u-t-o-r-t. 
Q Okay. And had you, when he called you, had you heard of Mr. Rhodes 
6 before? Or what did you know of Stewart Rhodes at that time? 
7 A Only what I read from the website. 
8 Q And did he reach out to you by phone, or was it through a messaging 
9 system? 11 
10 A I don't remember, sir, the first contact, if it was by phone or on a messaging 
11 app. 
12 Q Okay. And then we'll talk a little bit more about this later. But can you 
13 tell me what were the ways that you communicated with other Oath Keepers with 
14 whatever you did? 
15 So what were the messaging apps? 
16 A Signal was the only one that I knew that they used. And I remember they 
17 used to talk about Rocket.Chat. I never got on there. I don't know what that is. But I 
18 remember they used to talk about that. 
19 Q Okay. Yeah, I was going to ask if when you joined if you were put into any 
20 kind of, like, boards or forums or on line chats, and that might have been Rocket.Chat, but 
21 it sounds like you didn't join that. 
22 
23 A I didn't. 
Q So just Signal. And then I assume you spoke to some folks through texts or 
24 regular phone calls? 
25 A Yes, sir.  12 
1 Q All right. So then you, I take it, you end up in Louisville for the September 
2 protests. And you said you met Stewart Rhodes there, but only somewhat briefly? 
3 A Yeah. I saw him a few times while I was down there. He kind of had his 
4 group of people that he was riding around with. So I would just kind of see him here 
5 and there. You know what I mean? 
6 Q Yeah. What, other than --I know you already described the joking about 
7 his tight pants, but can you describe any other interactions that you remember? 
8 A I guess just talking to him. He was asking me if I enjoyed being there and 
9 things like that. 
10 Q Okay. What were your, if you have any kind of initial impressions of Mr. 
11 Rhodes, what did you think of him at that time? 
12 A Well, I have to be honest, and I told my buddies this as well. I saw the 
13 opportunity for him to make a lot of money, and I felt like he was just trying to make 
14 money. He was trying to seem --
15 Q What were the things that he did or said that gave you that idea? 
16 A He used to talk about donations a lot on the Signal chats. 
17 Q Like asking people for donations or talking about finding funders? Or what 
18 was he talking about? 
19 A He was talking about donors. He wasn't asking us for donations, he was 
20 just talking about donors that he was going to meet with and things of that sort. 
21 
22 
23 Q Got it. And did he name any specific donors? Do you remember any? 
A No, sir, I don't. 
Q And then I think you said, in addition to looking for donors and kind of being 
24 interested in the money side of things, that you also got the impression that he was kind 
25 of looking for some notoriety or fame. Is that right?  1 
2 
3 A 
Q 
A Absolutely, yeah. 
And what gave you that impression? 
Just trying to be in the media and trying to get the --it just seemed to me 
4 that it was more about him trying to get his name out there and the organization out 
5 there than actually trying to do the right thing. 
6 Q Got you. And did you --go ahead. 
7 A Keep in mind that Stewart never did anything wrong to me. He always 
8 treated me fair. I don't have anything against him. If he had a plan to storm the 
9 Capitol, I didn't know it. And he's really good at manipulating if he did have a plan. 13 
10 Q Right. And I wanted to ask, did you get any idea from him how he thought 
11 he would increase his notoriety or kind of get himself in the limelight? Like, what did he 
12 think the Oath Keepers could do to help him do that? 
13 A Well, just providing security at these events. That's all it was ever about. 
14 I mean, just, hey, you know --and even Louisville. Like, we had law enforcement telling 
15 us, hey, man, if you guys could go down here, that would be great because they're talking 
16 on Face book they're going to go burn this gas station down or these pawnshops. 
17 And it's just like, sitting here and actually appreciating my country, it felt like the 
18 right thing to do. If I can help an innocent person not get their business burned down by 
19 standing there, then I'm more than happy to do so. So it felt right to me. And I just --I 
20 wish people --
21 
22 
23 Q 
A 
Q Sorry, I think it's at it again, you broke up a little bit at the end there. 
No, go ahead, sir. 
In Louisville, what you're talking about mostly seems to be kind of protection 
24 of property and small businesses. As we get closer to January 6th and some of the 
25 events before January 6th, just through the course of our investigation we have seen Mr.  1 Rhodes' focus shifts a little bit from the property and small business protection to 
2 providing personal security for VIPs or celebrities. 
3 
4 Did you notice that shift at all? 
A I believe he probably always did that. I don't know. I mean, yeah, I did. 
5 I know --because I didn't go to D.C. the first few times that they went to D.C. 
6 
7 Q Right. 
A And I went up --like, Whip, he was like, hey, man, you ought to come up. 
8 And that's why I went. I just didn't --I'm seeing on lV that antifa's attacking these 
9 people just walking back from the beach or whatever, and I didn't think that was very 
10 right. 14 
11 There were a lot of things going on that was being called heroic all over the media 
12 and social media, and it clearly is just criminal behavior. And I disagreed with that 
13 fullheartedly, and I still do to this day. 
14 And I guess I just wanted to help my country, man. Like I told you on the phone 
15 when we talked before, I said I have tried to serve my country my entire life, and I still try 
16 to do so just by helping people within my community. And if people would get back to 
17 that, we'd have a better country. 
18 
19 Q Understood. I certainly agree with that sentiment. 
Focusing back kind of on Louisville. I want to talk about some of the other 
20 people that you met when you were with the Oath Keepers for those events. 
21 
22 
23 
24 You mentioned Whip, I think. Did you meet Whip on that trip? 
A I did. I met him in Louisville, yes, sir. 
Q Okay. And Whip is? Do you know his real name? 
A You know, I found out. I read an article. I think it's Michael Greene, but I 
25 never did know his name.  15 
1 Q Okay. Got it. Yeah, Michael Greene or something. He also goes by 
2 Michael Simmons. 
3 How did you meet Whip, and what was --or just take me through when you first 
4 met him. 
5 A Whip was the operations leader for the Louisville riot or protest, whatever. 
6 I'm trying to be politically correct. I'm just not very good at it. 
7 Q That's all right. And do you know was Whip an Oath Keeper? Was he 
8 introduced to you as an Oath Keeper? 
9 A No. I don't think he ever did actually join up, but, I mean, he was in charge 
10 of that whole operation. 
11 Q Okay. Did you understand the arrangement or was that known that Whip 
12 wasn't an Oath Keeper but was in charge of the Oath Keeper operations? 
13 A Yeah, I'm sure Whip told me, like, yeah, I'm not even an Oath Keeper, man, 
14 I'm just --Stewart's paying me. 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 Q Okay. So you were aware that Whip was being paid for his work? 
A Yes, sir. 
Q And did you ever get paid for anything that you did for Oath Keepers? 
A No, sir, I didn't. 
Q Did --this is jumping ahead a little bit, and we'll get into more detail --but on 
20 the 6th, we'll talk about, I believe you stayed in some hotel rooms that Mr. Rhodes had 
21 booked. Is that right? 
22 A I did. That wasn't set up actually. I was actually just on the phone with 
23 Whip while I was heading to D.C., and I was trying to find lodging. I was actually 
24 planning on camping. I just like to camp. And it was much cheaper. And then he 
25 said, well, Stewart's got room, you can --that's how that played out. That why I ended  16 
1 up staying there. 
2 Q Okay. I just bring that up to raise the distinction between getting paid for 
3 work that you were doing versus having costs covered or getting reimbursed for anything. 
4 Other than that hotel room on the 6th, did the Oath Keepers ever come across for 
5 any activities that you participated in or ever reimburse you for any costs that you 
6 incurred? 
7 A The only other thing, sir, would be while we were in Louisville I stayed in a 
8 room that Stewart provided as well. 
9 Q Okay. 
10 A I went down there with the idea of finding my own lodging. And Whip, 
11 again, I told him --him and I kind of hit it off. Like I always thought he was a real 
12 stand-up guy. And he was just like, hey, man, there's extra rooms over here, why don't 
13 you come stay? 
14 
15 Q 
A Okay. Do you recall where those hotel rooms were, what the hotel was? 
It was right downtown Louisville. I want to say it was the Hampton. 
16 There's, I think, a Hampton and a Marriott right beside each other in downtown Louisville. 
17 And I don't think it's the Marriott. I think it was a Hampton Inn. But, I mean, I honestly 
18 could be wrong on that. 
19 Q That's fine. That's fine. That sounds close enough. 
20 We have heard from other witnesses that there might be Oath Keepers who 
21 stayed at a motel near a pawnshop. Does that ring a bell? 
22 
23 hotel. 
24 
25 A 
Q 
A That was --yes. The pawnshop and the gas station was very close to that 
Okay. So you think that was probably --that's the same hotel? 
It could have been. By the time --I got to Louisville late and by the time I  1 got there most of the Oath Keepers had moved out of that hotel. It was literally just 
2 Whip and myself in the hotel. 
3 Q We're going to talk about kind of the concept of a QRF for the 6th, but also 
4 for Louisville. Did you hear anybody talk about a QRF at Louisville? 
5 
6 A Yes, sir. I believe they do QRFs everywhere they go. 
Q Right. Can you tell me what was explained to you about the QRF or what 
7 the purpose of the QRF was? 
8 A A QRF is just --I mean, if something majorly wrong happens, they're just 
9 there for protection. I mean, they're there to help stop it. 17 
10 
11 
12 Q Okay. And when you traveled to Louisville, did you take firearms with you? 
A I did. 
Q Okay. And obviously you were able to carry arms. I'm really just asking as 
13 a factual matter what you brought and not where they were stored. 
14 So what sort of firearms did you bring when you went to Louisville? 
A I brought an AR and a 9-millimeter pistol. 15 
16 Q Okay. And what did you do for the most part while you were in Louisville 
17 with those weapons? 
18 A Well, I went with a guy to the actual protest itself, walked right through the 
19 middle of it, so he could take some pictures and things of that sort, just figure out what's 
20 going on down there. 
21 And then I went back, and I ended up just kind of hanging out with Whip, riding 
22 around in his car. I didn't really do much of anything, to be honest with you, just kind of 
23 hung out. 
24 Q But when you're talking being in the middle of the protests or walking down 
25 there, did you take the AR, the handgun with you as well?  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 A No, sir. I did --I was carrying --I was conceal carrying my 9-millimeter. 
Q Okay. Got it. 
What did you do with the AR when you were kind of out and about? 
A I believe it was still in my truck where we parked. 
Q Okay. Was the QRFs at this event, and then --I know you said generally 
6 there was a QRF --was that a place where people would bring their weapons and 
7 collectively store them? 
8 A No. Not that I saw. I mean, I have read a lot of these articles about the 
9 QRF and what they were planning on doing in D.C. 
10 That's why I have such a hard, I guess, a hard time with this committee, because 
11 I've seen a lot of things come out that it's just like, man, that's just not true, that's 18 
12 not --like the guys that I met, like, I didn't know many Oath Keepers, to be honest. But 
13 the ones that I did meet, I didn't think they were extremists or anything. You know 
14 what I mean? 
15 Q Yeah. Well, we'll kind of get into the details of some of that, and we can 
16 talk about kind of what you knew and understood. And I am certainly interested in your 
17 perspective and what you observed. So we'll get into more details there. 
18 But how about --so for Louisville, could you describe what was the QRF? Did 
19 you ever see it? Like where, what form did it take? 
20 A It was the North Carolina group. There was a group of Oath Keepers out of 
21 North Carolina. And it seemed to me that they were the ones that did the Oath 
22 Keepers' QRF. 
23 Q Okay. And did you --and what --maybe the question is not coming across. 
24 But what was the QRF? Was it a hotel room? Was it a car? Was it a location in a 
25 field? Where was the QRF? What was it?  19 
1 A I know at some point they were supposed to stage in a parking garage. 
2 And if something happened, I remember they were talking about planning medical routes 
3 and things, if anybody got hurt, to get them to the hospital. 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 Q Do you know where folks --so does it sound like it was then a car? 
A Yeah, I would say it was probably several cars. 
Q Several cars. Okay. 
A I don't know that for a fact, though, sir. I wasn't a part --
Q Okay. Yeah, definitely, let me know, if I ask a question, let me know if 
9 you're --there's a difference between seeing something and observing it for yourself and 
10 then a different kind of situation might be somebody told you that X happened or Y this 
11 did. And then I don't want you speculating about things that you don't know. So just 
12 let me know when either you're guessing at something or you know something 
13 secondhand, if that makes sense. 
14 
15 A Will do. 
Q Okay. So let's talk about some of the other. Other than Whip, do you 
16 recall any Oath Keepers that you met during that Louisville trip? 
17 A Yes, James Davis. I mean, I've met several people, I guess. That 
18 Doug --they called him Ranger Doug. That's really all I know of him, yes, sir. I think he 
19 was in charge of the QRF. 
20 
21 
22 
23 Q Yeah, Doug Smith. He was from North Carolina, right? 
A Doug Smith, that's it. Yes, sir. 
Q Okay. 
A And I met several --I met Todd Wilson in Louisville. I met --man, it's hard 
24 to think of them. Shoot, I know I met --there was a lot of other people there. 
25 Q Do you remember meeting Jessica Watkins?  1 
2 
3 
4 A 
Q 
A 
Q No, I do not. I don't think I ever met her. 
And then how about do you know Joshua James? 
I did. I met Joshua James on January the 5th. 
Okay. What can you tell me from what you remember about the North 20 
5 Carolina Oath Keepers that were in Louisville, like did, as far as you understood, did they 
6 have somebody who was in charge of them or their leader? Who were the other folks? 
7 Did they do anything in particular other than just manning the QRF? 
8 A I know Doug Smith was one of the guys. Doug and Todd rode around with 
9 Stewart in a Nissan Armada in Louisville. 
10 
11 Q 
A Okay. 
And there was another guy that was in the North --an older dude, kind of 
12 heavyset. Man, I can't remember his name. I just --I can't remember his name. But 
13 he was in the vehicle with them. 
14 And there was another guy, I don't know his name, that was the driver. 
15 Supposedly, he was from Louisville. And I did --I shook hands with him, but I just --I 
16 never had any other contact, and I have no idea what his name now is, sir. 
17 Q Okay. Other than just a couple other North Carolina Oath Keepers I'll ask 
18 you about real quick, and just let me know if you recognize the names, or if you ever met 
19 them. 
20 Do you know Paul Stamey? 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 that. A 
Q 
A No, sir, that doesn't ring a bell. 
And then how about Steve --sorry, go ahead. 
I'm sorry to interrupt you, sir. 
Do you know what his, I guess, his call sign was? I mean, I might know him by  1 
2 Leader. 
3 
4 
5 
6 21 
Q On Signal he just went by, I believe, it was Paul Stamey, a Western State 
A Oh, okay. No, sir, I do not. 
Q Okay. And then how about Steve Kwiatkowski? 
A No, sir. 
Q All right. So then, before we move on from Louisville, any kind 
7 of --anything that sticks out in your memory from Louisville that we haven't discussed, or 
8 anything that you think we should know about that trip? 
9 A Yeah. How many law enforcement officers thanked us for being there. 
10 And we only followed direction. No one protested. No one yelled. No one 
11 screamed. I know the narrative that everybody believes in the Oath Keepers now. 
12 And, frankly, it's just --it is not true, especially in Louisville, I mean. 
13 Q Okay. Did you take part in any of the reach out to law enforcement, or did 
14 you talk to any law enforcement? 
15 A No, only while I was there them saying, hey, thanks guys, for being here, we 
16 really appreciate it. 
17 Q Do you know who --was there somebody that was in charge of, like, liaising 
18 with law enforcement or reaching out to them? 
19 A You know, I don't know who it would be. I would assume Stewart or Whip, 
20 I would guess. Stewart was pretty hands-on, it seemed like. 
21 Q All right. How about for D.C., just fast forwarding a little bit? Do you 
22 know if anybody reached out to law enforcement or coordinated with them ahead of 
23 time? 
24 A I really don't. The only communication that I had for the D.C. trip was they 
25 did add me to a Signal chat, but I rarely got on Signal. If you look through the records,  1 I'm sure you could see that. I don't --I didn't post --I mean, I'm just not a --I don't sit 
2 around on forums and chats. You know what I mean? 
3 
4 Q 
A Right. Got you. 
But I pretty much just communicated with Whip. And him and I were 
5 always just joking around and things. It wasn't, you know --
6 Q Speaking of Signal, were you added to Signal for a chat specifically about 
7 Louisville? 22 
8 A Yes, sir, I'm sure I was, because whoever was coming would get added to the 
9 chat so they would know what's going on. 
10 Q And what --I know we've talked about this a little bit --but can you tell me 
11 what, at least as far as you know, happened to your Signal messages? Do you still have 
12 those? 
13 
14 A I do. It was on an old cell phone of mine, and I still have the old cell phone. 
Q Okay. And what --so other than Louisville, there is a Louisville chat. 
15 know there was a D.C. Op Jan 6th (ph) chat. Is that right? 
16 A I can't remember the names of the groups. I was added to some groups. 
17 But I don't think it --no one ever asked my opinion or anything [inaudible] getting me 
18 added. 
19 Q Right. If I give you the name of some of the other chats, can you tell me if 
20 this rings any bells or you think you might have been added to it? 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 A Yes, sir. 
Q There was one called Intel Leadership. Does that ring a bell? 
A It does. 
Q Okay. And you think you were part of that one? 
A Probably. I was on --they kept putting me on those chats and stuff. And I  23 
1 just --I really do think it just stems back to Whip. You know what I mean? Because 
2 him and I became [inaudible]. I mean, I didn't talk to Stewart like that, I mean. 
3 Q Okay. Yeah, we might then after --we might have a conversation after this 
4 interview about whether or not we can get you to produce some of those chats. That 
5 might just involve taking some screenshots, or we can help you do that. 
6 But if you still have that old phone and it still has your Signal chats on it, I am you 
7 sure you don't have any plans to, but just make sure you don't do anything to alter those 
8 chats or delete the messages. 
9 A Well, I can remember speaking to Whip about when they were saying on 
10 Signal to delete all your messages and stuff. I mean, I was like, no, I'm not doing that, 
11 man. And Whip is like, I am not either. I don't know if he did or not, but --
12 Q Do you recall why you felt like you shouldn't do that or why you didn't want 
13 to do that? 
14 A Well, I mean, I didn't do anything wrong. And they're talking about 
15 deleting chats and stuff, and I was like, why would you do that? You know what I mean? 
16 Why are you talking about deleting things? 
17 I've said it to anybody that knows me: I will never again let an organization 
18 define who I am. That was a very bad move for me to join an organization. 
19 And then I thought I was doing the right thing. I thought it was made up of good 
20 people, because veterans and law enforcement are good people. There's always bad 
21 actors in any organization you go to, whether it's buying a car or ordering at McDonald's. 
22 And somehow it's gotten turned where I'm an extremist, I'm a racist. And I just --I don't 
23 appreciate it. 
24 
25 Q 
A Yeah. 
I mean, it's just --1 understand painting a narrative for the public and the  24 
1 citizens of this country, but I don't understand --you would think if people would just do 
2 the right thing, we'd be in a better world, but they don't. They do it for power. They 
3 do it for politics. They do it for money. And that's true. 
4 Q Just to kind of set the table for the conversation a little bit, I'm curious about 
5 kind of your perspective on Mr. Rhodes and some of the leadership of the Oath Keepers, 
6 kind of knowing what you know now. 
7 Do you think that there were plans that you just weren't aware of or privy to? 
8 Or what are your feelings about what Mr. Rhodes had intended for January 6th? 
9 A I go back and forth on that, sir. I have seen some messages now in 
10 indictments and things like that, and it's like, man, you had communication with people 
11 that were inside while it was happening. 
12 
13 Q 
A Right. 
Clearly, he was okay with it. You know what I mean? 
14 Q Right. 
15 A I mean he --so, you know, for a long time, like even dealing with the FBI and 
16 things. It's just like, hey, man, I don't know if he had a plan or not. 
17 It doesn't matter what political side you're on right now. You know that both 
18 sides are spinning things in the media. Everybody has to know that. And if you don't, I 
19 just --it bothers me a little bit. I mean, Republicans and Democrats. I'm not just 
20 saying Democrats at all. 
21 And it's just unfortunate, man, because I wish people could just speak the truth, 
22 be patriotic, appreciate where we live. 
23 Because I can tell you right now, in Baghdad, Iraq, you wouldn't want to live there. 
24 Your kids, you wouldn't want them to be there. And we have it made here. And we're 
25 worried about these things that can help people in other ways other than helping the  25 
1 citizens of this country, and I can't stand that. 
2 But going back to the question, I think that Stewart Rhodes definitely knew 
3 something that I didn't. That's my opinion. 
4 Q Yeah. And, like I said, we'll get into a little more detail on some of that as 
5 we talk about January 6th. 
6 But let's move on from Louisville and just talk about were there any other kind of 
7 events that you attended in person with Oath Keepers between Louisville and 
8 January 6th? 
9 A Before Louisville, I went to Grayson, Kentucky, and Olive Hill, Kentucky. 
10 Black Lives Matter was doing protests, and I did go there. I talked to the sheriff and the 
11 chief of police of Carter County. And they were very thankful and asked us to just stay 
12 by a church and if something did happen, they would holler at us. 
13 But Black Lives Matter was extremely peaceful, and they had every right to be 
14 there, and they always do, you know. It goes both ways. It always does. That's how 
15 our country works. But they were extremely peaceful. And all of the locals were 
16 acting out of control, yelling racial slurs. And it was unreal to me. 
17 Q Right. Okay. And who were the other Oath Keepers that you recall being 
18 at that Grayson [inaudible] event? 
19 A Rob Dutort and James Davis. There was a guy named Mark. He was from 
20 Lexington, Kentucky. I can't remember his last name, sir. But he had a few guys with 
21 him. I just can't remember their names. That's the only time I ever saw. 
22 Q And these were all Kentucky Oath Keepers? 
23 A No, sir. I think Rob Dutort actually lives in Tennessee. But he has a place 
24 in Kentucky, some land. I think he said Sandy Hook. James is from Kentucky. Other 
25 than that, I don't know the other guy.  1 Q So then for the period --but a period after Louisville, so September to 
2 January --you didn't attend any other Oath Keeper events? 
3 
4 A Not that I can recall, sir. No, I don't think so. 
Q All right. Did you consider going up to D.C. for some --I know there 
5 were --or I'll tell you if you're unaware, there were events on November 14th. Some 26 
6 people call that the MAGA I rally or the Stop the Steal rally. And then there was another 
7 one on December 12th. 
8 Do you recall those, and did you consider going to those events? 
9 A Yeah, I did consider it. I just had things going on. I take care of my 
10 grandfather, and I take care of his farm as well. And I just said it was just impossible to 
11 make it. 
12 Q And then how about there was --hold on one second. Sorry, I'm going 
13 back. 
14 Okay. How about there was also a Stop the Steal rally in Atlanta, Georgia, 
15 around November 18th. Do you recall that rally? 
16 A I remember when they went to Atlanta. I did not attend. But I do. 
17 don't really remember any details from it, though. 
18 
19 Q Were you on any Signal chats related to planning for any of those events? 
A You know, I'm not sure. I mean, I don't think so. Maybe they would have 
20 added me to the group because I was coming. But, no, I definitely never helped plan. 
21 didn't have any say-so, and this is what I'm getting at. 
22 Q Right. Understood. Okay. 
23 Then let's talk about --move to January 6th and kind of the lead-up to that and 
24 how you learned about the events and what your expectations were. 
25 When was the first time that you heard about January 6th possibly being a day of  27 
1 protests or a day that events like that were going to be held? 
2 A Well, I mean, how I heard about it was the President was giving a speech 
3 that day. So they were going to have a rally. 
4 Q Do you recall --do you use Twitter, actually, the first question? 
5 A No, sir. 
6 Q All right. Did you --I don't really use Twitter very much either or at all, but 
7 still around that time I would often see President Trump's tweets, if they would be put on 
8 the news or be posted elsewhere online. 
9 Do you ever remember seeing President Trump tweet about January 6th? 
10 
11 A 
Q No, sir, I don't. 
And where did you --so I know you said you learned of January 6th because 
12 you learned the President was going to speak there. Do you remember who told you 
13 that or where you saw that information? 
14 A I don't. I mean, it was more of like Whip talking to me about coming up to 
15 D.C. and just saying, hey, we're going to do this security. 
16 My security detail was the --you know, the last protests there were several rally 
17 goers attacked by antifa. I've been told several times that antifa doesn't exist, which 
18 obviously is just not true. I've seen them with my own eyes. But I think there was 
19 even a dude that got stabbed in the face a few times. And that's just not right, man. 
20 That's just not right. 
21 So what I was going to do was just walk back with the rally goers, and if anybody 
22 got attacked, just defend them. That was my mission when I went to D.C. 
23 Q What's the event that you're talking about somebody getting stabbed in the 
24 face? 
25 A I guess there was one of the other protests before the January rally.  1 
2 Q 
A One of the ones in D.C., the MAGA I or MAGA II or Stop the Steal rally? 
Yeah, it was one that was in Washington, D.C. I was not there for it, but I 28 
3 saw it on the news and read some articles about it and things. There were several 
4 people attacked. 
5 Q Do you know --so I think if we're talking about the same event, we're talking 
6 about December 12th, which was the second Stop the Steal or MAGA II rally, and there 
7 were a number of individuals that were engaged in a violent incident that evolved into a 
8 stabbing. And it was a group called the Proud Boys involved with that, and then a 
9 number of antifa also. Is that what you're talking about? 
10 A I can't remember the groups now, but --I mean, and this is the --I guess the 
11 reason I have such a hard time with this interview right here is because I was --going back 
12 to Louisville --I was standing there, and Black Lives Matter was protesting at the AG's 
13 office, and I was standing there. And they walked out on the road. The cops didn't 
14 know. The cops are scrambling, trying to get traffic stopped and stuff. They went up. 
15 There was a single Caucasian individual in a Ford Taurus. They went up and 
16 started kicking his car, trying to pull him out. He got out with a pistol to defend himself. 
17 And I went back to my hotel room. And that night on the news it was: White 
18 supremacist threatens peaceful Black Lives Matter rally goers. 
19 So depending on what you read or what news you watch is your opinion of what's 
20 happening. Unfortunately, there's no factual basis of a lot of these stories. 
21 And I've been able to witness that with my own eyes. And I know it's probably 
22 hard to believe for some people that haven't witnessed things like that, but it's just true. 
23 It's just true. 
24 So we can talk about articles of what happened or whose perspective. Do you 
25 see what I'm getting at?  1 Q Yeah. And I'm really just focused on this December 12th event, trying to 
2 see if that's the thing that you are remembering. Because I wanted to ask a little bit 
3 about if you had ever heard of Proud Boys or if you knew what that organization was. 
4 Are you aware of the Proud Boys or had you been at that time? 
5 A I've heard of the Proud Boys. I'll be honest with you, I never had any 
6 respect for the Proud Boys because all they're doing is making the police work harder. 
7 
8 Q 
A Where --do you recall the first time you heard about the Proud Boys? 
No, I don't, sir. Now, the Oath Keepers didn't really like the Proud Boys 
9 from what I remember. 
10 Q Right. I think there was a little bit of tension between the groups. 
11 Do you remember any conversations about the Proud Boys or how you learned 
12 the Oath Keepers didn't like the Proud Boys? 
13 A No, sir, not off the top of my head. It was just I never --like, to me, like 
14 even when I first heard about the Proud Boys, I had no respect for them because that's 
15 not helping at all. 
16 I just --no, we never really talked about the Proud Boys. I mean, there really 
17 wasn't --you know. And I've read a lot of articles about the Proud Boys and Oath 
18 Keepers communicating and planning to storm the Capitol and things, and that may be 
19 true. But I know the Oath Keepers that I know weren't in on that and we 
20 didn't even --it wasn't even discussed, at least around me. 
21 
22 Q 
A Did you ever hear Mr. Rhodes talk about the Proud Boys ever? 
No. I know that he went down and met him in that parking garage. But 
23 that was mainly --I was there for that. That was mainly --I can't remember his name. 29 
24 It was the Veterans for Trump guy, the Latinos for Trump woman, Stewart's girlfriend --I 
25 can't remember her name --Kellye --and Stewart. There may have been somebody else  1 too, man. 
2 But anyways, I remember that. I mean, I don't --I never heard Stewart talking 
3 about the Proud Boys really. You know, like I said, I wasn't around Stewart a whole lot 
4 either. 
5 Q 
6 meeting? 
7 
8 A 
Q When you say you were there for that, were you in the garage for that 
I was. But I wasn't close to them when they were speaking. 
Okay. We'll talk about that in a little bit more detail in a second when we 
9 get to your time in D.C. 
10 Okay. So we were just talking about --do you remember the timeframe when 
11 Whip started reaching out to you about coming to D.C.? 
12 A Yeah, Whip and I were in communication. So, no, I don't. We talked 
13 pretty often, I would say. 30 
14 Q Just to try to put a ballpark on it, do you remember was it before Christmas 
15 or after Christmas? 
16 
17 A 
Q I don't recall that, sir. 
Okay. Well, what did you --did you know at that time, kind of when the 
18 conversation started about January 6th, did you know what the significance of that day 
19 was? 
20 A All I knew was Trump was giving a speech at the, I believe, the Ellipse, and 
21 that's all I knew about it. I mean, I didn't --
22 Q Did you ever hear about or did you come to learn that on January 6th 
23 Congress would be certifying the electoral college votes? 
24 A I mean, I'm sure I heard that. But, I mean, it wasn't --there were never, 
25 absolutely ever anybody speaking about stopping the steal or raiding the Capitol in front  31 
1 of me. That just didn't happen. 
2 Q I just kind of throw out the conversation until I understand, taking kind of 
3 steps ahead and sort of reading implications into my questions. And I promise you a lot 
4 of these are really just kind of fact-based questions of when did you hear about X for the 
5 first time or Y. 
6 So knowing that January 6th was the day the electoral college would be certified 
7 certainly isn't meant to imply that you or anybody you were talking to were [inaudible] 
8 stop that. But I would say a lot of people that were present on the 6th understood what 
9 Congress was doing on that day. So my question is just, did you know what Congress 
10 was doing that day? 
11 
12 A 
Q No, sir. I mean, I'm sure I knew that they were certifying the election. 
Uh-huh. 
13 A You know, like I said, I didn't go up there for that. And I agree with you 
14 fullheartedly, sir. There were definitely people that had a plan. They had gas masks 
15 and ropes and sticks. You know what I mean? 
16 
17 Q 
A Right. 
So you're absolutely right by saying that. And I know I have my opinion, 
18 and I shouldn't be speaking it, I guess. But I want to be honest here. And I want to on 
19 both sides. You know what I mean? 
20 Q No, that's okay. And I don't mean to say that because I don't want to hear 
21 your opinion. It's certainly fine for you to state that. I'm just trying to separate a little 
22 bit some of the kind of sort of facts on the ground versus other things you learned or 
23 opinions you [inaudible]. Do you know what I mean? 
24 
25 A Sure. 
Q Did you ever hear of or do you know what the Insurrection Act is?  32 
1 A Yes, sir. Stewart Rhodes talked about wanting Trump to, I don't know, call 
2 the Insurrection Act or whatever you call it. I'm not real familiar with it, to be honest 
3 with you. I don't really know what it means. 
4 But I remember he wrote a letter, I think. I don't know if he wrote it to Trump or 
5 if he just put it like on the website, I want to say. But I remember him talking about 
6 writing a letter about the Insurrection Act and wanting them to call the Insurrection Act. 
7 Q Right. The idea, it was actually both. He posted an open letter to Trump, 
8 or actually two open letters that he and Ms. So Rel le wrote together to Trump discussing 
9 the Insurrection Act. So your memory is good. 
10 Just based on what you remember of the conversation, what did you think he 
11 wanted to happen with the Insurrection Act? And even if you don't understand kind of 
12 the act itself, what was your impression of what Mr. Rhodes thought would happen or 
13 wanted to happen? 
14 A My impression of that was Stewart would want Trump to do the Insurrection 
15 Act, to call the Oath Keepers up to, I guess, help stop the election, I guess. I mean, that's 
16 now. 
17 You know, back then he was just like, yeah, I hope he calls the Insurrection Act 
18 because the election was stolen. And he wasn't saying let's fight or anything. He 
19 never said that to me at least. 
20 But my impression was just call it so that Trump could stay in office, I guess. 
21 But, really, I never really understood the Insurrection Act really. But that's not 
22 why I was there. You know what I mean? 
23 Q Right. Understood. And what was your --and you might have said this 
24 before, but I'll just get you to restate it --what was your purpose for being there? 
25 A Well, Whip wanted me to come. And I really just --I had never been to  33 
1 Washington, D.C., before. I guess I did when I was a little kid, but I don't remember it. 
2 And I always wanted to go, so I thought a good opportunity to go. 
3 And I don't know. I was supposed to walk back with the rally goers just in case 
4 anybody got attacked again. 
5 Q And so you explained to me that you originally planned --well, actually first 
6 question, what day did you go up to D.C.? 
7 A I left early on the 5th.  1 
2 [11:07 a.m.] 
3 BY MR. 
Q And did --how did you travel to D.C.? 
5 Id A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
right? 
A And was that by yourself or did anybody join you? 
No, it was with Joe Harrington. 
And Mr. Harrington stayed in the hotel with you also. Is that right? 
Yes. Yes, sir. 
And so your original plan was to camp somewhere outside of D.C. Is that 
Yeah, just find some lodging somewhere, no big deal, you know. 34 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 Q All right. Do you know --I've asked you a couple other names, if they ring a 
14 bell. Have you ever heard of a man with the last name Caldwell? 
15 A Caldwell. I read some articles, but I never knew him. I don't know his first 
16 name. I don't remember right now, but --
17 Q Okay. He had some --he had some property in northern Virginia, and I was 
18 just curious if you were planning on camping there. But it sounds like no. 
19 
20 A Oh, no, sir. 
Q Okay. All right. So just explain to me quickly, it was Whip that told you 
21 that the hotel rooms were available. Is that right? 
22 
23 A Yes, sir. 
Q Okay. And how did that --you were just in communication with him as you 
24 were heading up? Can you just describe how that unfolded or how you got invited to 
25 the hotel room?  35 
1 A Yeah. I was just talking to Whip on my way up, because I was supposed to 
2 meet Whip when I got there, so I was telling him we're almost there. And I don't 
3 remember exactly how the conversation went, sir, but I'm sure it was just, hey, man, 
4 we've got some hotel rooms and, you know, you can just stay there. 
5 
6 Q Can you tell me who else stayed in the hotel that you were aware of? 
A The only people that I knew of were myself, Joe, Whip, Todd Wilson, 
7 Stewart, and Kellye. Oh, and I think Josh James stayed there, but I didn't know that at 
8 the time, because I didn't see him. 
9 Q Did Todd Wilson come with any other members of the --of North Carolina 
10 Oath Keepers? 
11 
12 A I think he came alone, sir. 
Q And what was, as far as you were aware of it, what was the relationship 
13 between Mr. Rhodes and Mr. Wilson? 
14 A They were --they were pretty close. I remember one evening they were 
15 down in the lobby area of the hotel and just sitting there eating McDonalds, and it was 
16 just them sitting there and they're talking, you know. And even in Louisville, you know, 
17 like I said, Todd was riding around with Stewart the whole time. He was one of --he was 
18 one of Stewart's like right-hand guys, you could just tell. 
19 
20 Q Got it. Was there anybody else like that, that you can think of? 
A Well, Whip, absolutely. Stewart really liked Whip, and they were close, you 
21 could tell. That Doug Smith and Stewart were very close. There was a guy named 
22 Dennis from Florida. I don't know his last name, sir, but it seemed like he --he was kind 
23 of a big leader too, it seemed like to me. 
24 
25 Q Did you ever meet Kelly Meggs? 
A Yeah, I did briefly in Washington, D.C. on the 5th.  36 
And what --
Whip introduced him. I'm sorry. 
Go ahead. Sorry. Whip introduced him to you? 1 
2 
3 
4 Q 
A 
Q 
A I was just saying, Whip --Whip introduced me to him there when I got there. 
5 Q What did you understand --what was the relationship between Mr. Meggs 
6 and Mr. Rhodes? 
7 A You know, I was never around both of them at the same time. I met Kelly 
8 Meggs very briefly, like, oh, hey, man, nice to meet you. And then he went somewhere 
9 else. I don't know where he went. 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q What time did you arrive in D.C. on the 5th, if you recall? 
It would've been late morning, early afternoon, sir. 
And the same --
Maybe it would've been --yeah. 
Same sort of question. From Louisville, what did you bring in the way of 
15 firearms to northern Virginia? 
16 
17 
18 A 
Q 
A I just brought my pistol. 
Okay. And was there a reason you didn't bring the AR that time? 
Well, we couldn't carry. I mean, you can't bring weapons into D.C., so 
19 there would be no reason to. 
20 Q Did you ever have any conversations about other --or with other Oath 
21 Keepers about what sort of firearms you were bringing or should bring or shouldn't bring? 
22 A Yeah. I can --I can vaguely remember them speaking about not being 
23 allowed to carry weapons and things, on the Signal chat. 
24 Q Did --how about Joe Harrington, did he bring any firearms that you're aware 
25 of?  1 
2 A I honestly can't remember. I don't think he did. But he might have --
Q And then what did you --obviously, you know, I know you went into D.C. 
3 What did you do with a 9 millimeter while you were in D.C.? 
4 
5 A It stayed in my hotel room. 
Q Okay. Did you talk to Mr. Wilson or Mr. Rhodes about where other Oath 
6 Keepers' firearms were being stored? 
7 A No, sir, I didn't. 
8 Q Okay. 
9 A I honestly was under the impression people weren't bringing them. 
10 Q Okay. Did you --so I know you talked about --we talked about a QRF in 
11 Louisville. What did you know about the QRF in D.C.? 
12 A You know, I didn't know anything about it, sir. They had already done a 
13 couple events in Washington, D.C., and I was not included on those events. I just 37 
14 couldn't make it or --you know. And then the QRF in D.C., Whip himself told me, yeah, 
15 the North Carolina guys just didn't fucking show up. 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 Q The ones --
A And so --
Q The ones that would normally manage the QRF? 
A From my understanding, yes, sir. 
Q And was the name of the hotel you were staying in, do you remember it? 
A It was Garden --the Garden Inn or something like that, sir. 
Q The Hilton Garden Inn? 
A The Hilton Garden Inn, that's it, yes, sir. 
Q Do you remember any conversations about Oath Keepers that were staying 
25 in a different hotel called the Comfort Inn?  1 
2 
3 
4 A No, sir. I didn't know about that until I read an article, to be honest. 
Q Okay. 
A I did not. 
Q All right. Well, then, let's talk about the night of the --or the day of 
5 January 5th, so that's --that morning you arrive in D.C. Can you just walk me through 
6 that day? 
A On the 5th, sir? 38 
7 
8 Q Yeah, the 5th, the day before the big --you know, obviously, the riots at the 
9 Capitol. 
10 A Sure. I think it's --I've got to say, I think it's --you call the riots in Louisville 
11 protest and the riot in --at the Capitol a riot, you know --
12 Q I used the word "riot" for Louisville, just for the record. 
13 A Okay. The 5th, I got there, I met Whip over by the Supreme Court. I had 
14 a heck of a time finding him. And I met --that's where I met Kelly Meggs, Kelly Meggs 
15 right there. And then he left very, very quick. I don't know where he went or what 
16 they were doing. I hung out with Whip most of the day. That's pretty much all we did. 
17 We went to --he ended up having to --okay. There was a guy --I don't --I think 
18 Josh James as well. Josh James and another guy picked us up in golf carts and took us 
19 to, I want to say, the Willard, sir. 
20 
21 Q Okay. Yeah, the Willard. 
A And that's where they were doing the security for Roger Stone, and that's 
22 where I met Josh James. Josh James --and I told the FBI and everybody this --he was --I 
23 thought he was very arrogant. I didn't get along with him. I didn't like him. I mean, 
24 we didn't have like a fight or anything, but he just --he was just kind of loud and 
25 obnoxious, to be honest with you.  1 
2 
3 
4 Q What was he --
A And --
Q What was he being loud and obnoxious about? 
A Just joking around and things. I mean, just --like, I don't remember 39 
5 anything --like, there was nothing like extremism talk like that. It was just, I don't know, 
6 just making fun of people and stuff, and he just --he was just one of those guys that you 
7 meet, sir, that thought he was better than you, if that makes any sense. 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 Q It does. I've certainly met those people in my life. 
A Right. 
Q So it makes sense. 
Did you take part in providing any security for Mr. Stone on the 5th? 
A No, sir, I did not. 
Q Who --do you know which Oath Keepers did, or did you talk to anybody that 
14 was doing that? 
15 A Just Josh, and there was the other guy that was driving the second golf cart, 
16 but I don't know --I didn't know those people. 
17 
18 
19 
20 Q What --
A I mean, I didn't just --I never --
Q About what --do you recall about what time you got to the Supreme Court? 
A Like I said, I mean, we literally checked into the hotel and went straight 
21 there. So it would've been, I guess --I honestly don't, sir. I'm sorry. It would have 
22 been probably early afternoon. 
23 Q That's okay. So you went from the Supreme Court and then to the Willard 
24 Hotel, which is near Freedom Plaza. Do you know what I mean when I'm talking about 
25 Freedom Plaza?  1 A Yes, sir. We walked right by it. And that's where I ran into Stewart 
2 Rhodes and Kellye. Well, I didn't run into them. Whip had contact with Stewart, and 
3 he wanted us to meet him over there. And I was just --I was hanging out with Whip 
4 really, you know. 
5 
6 
7 Q When you met up with Stewart and Kellye, what happened after that? 
A Stewart asked us to walk with him to the Phoenix Hotel. 
Q Do you remember who else you walked with? It was Mr. Rhodes, 
8 Ms. SoRelle, you. Was Whip with you? 40 
9 A No, Whip wasn't with us. I don't know where he went. Joe was with me. 
10 Joe was a --just a little background --he was a buddy of mine that I'd met in recruiting, 
11 and we go way back. You know, I ended up finding out some stuff that he told the FBI 
12 about me and stuff, which is just --but him and I aren't friends anymore. 
13 This has really ruined me, man, like all this going on, and I just --I never even 
14 broke a law. But, you know --
15 Q And so --sorry, just to stop you there for a second. What is it that you 
16 learned he had told the FBI? 
17 A He --I think he told them that I was the --he thought that I was becoming an 
18 extremist, so the only reason he went to D.C. with me was to save me. You know, my 
19 understanding, if I had a friend that was an extremist, I would probably talk to him about 
20 it, be like, hey, man, you're becoming an extremist. But he never did that, and that's 
21 just a lie. I mean, that's just the truth. 
22 Q Okay. So you and Joe, Mr. Rhodes, Ms. SoRelle. Who else were you 
23 walking with? 
24 A There were two other Oath Keepers, sir. I don't know their names. There 
25 was a really big guy, and the other guy was kind of average. The FBI showed me  41 
1 pictures of them, and I was able to identify him, but I don't --I don't know who they were. 
2 
3 
4 Q Would you recognize their names if I told you? 
A Probably not. I know them, but maybe. 
Q There was --I believe one of the individuals might have been named Frank 
5 Marchisella on Signal. He was paddymasterdiver. 
6 
7 
8 A Yeah, I'm not --that doesn't ring a bell, sir. 
Q Okay. And then David Kirk (ph), does that ring a bell? 
A No, sir. I really didn't know those guys. They were just there with 
9 Stewart and --
10 Q Okay. All right. So just take me through, so you met up with --met up 
11 with all of them. Was --you mentioned two other individuals that were kind of involved 
12 in the garage meeting that happens a little bit after this, a woman from Latinos from 
13 Trump, I believe her name is Ms. Bianca Gracia. Does that ring a bell for you? 
14 
15 
16 
17 A Yes, sir, it does. 
Q Okay. And then Vets for Trump, another individual named Josh Macias? 
A Yes, sir. 
Q Okay. Were either of them with you as you walked over to the park --the 
18 Phoenix Park Hotel? 
19 
20 A No, sir. They were at the hotel, though. 
Q Okay. So just take me through, after you met up with the --you four Oath 
21 Keepers plus Mr. Rhodes, plus Ms. SoRelle, what happened after that? You walked to 
22 the hotel, I take it? 
23 A Yes, sir. We walked to the Phoenix Hotel. Kellye wanted some alcohol, 
24 because they were all drinking beer and things like that up in the hotel room. So I also 
25 wanted some alcohol, so we walked down to a corner liquor store. And then when we  42 
1 got back, we went up to the hotel room where everyone was, and that would've been the 
2 people you just mentioned. 
3 There was another woman, I can't remember her name in there, and her 
4 daughter. And then there was a --you know, I don't know her, to be honest. It was 
5 either a Senator or a Representative that came to the room with her security, and they 
6 made a Facebook Live video, I think, directed towards Trump. 
7 
8 Q 
A Right. 
But I wasn't really included in the --I wasn't included in the video or 
9 anything, I just happened to be there, and I'm not sure why I was there, you know what I 
10 mean? 
11 
12 
13 Q 
A 
Q Right. 
So --
Did --so explain to me where in relation to that meeting in the hotel room, 
14 when did the garage meeting happen, before or after? Just go through --
15 A We went --we went to the hotel room, sir. And they said that, I guess, 
16 what's his name, Enrique something, the Proud Boys leader --
17 Q Right. 
18 A --they said that he had 24 hours to get out of town, so they wanted to see 
19 him before he left. And that's literally how I took it. That's all that was. That's 
20 what --that's what I heard, you know, unless they had other conversations that I didn't 
21 hear, you know. So --
22 Q 
23 garage? 
24 
25 A 
Q And then from --so from the hotel room, you all left the hotel to go to the 
Yes, sir, just asked me to walk with them. 
Just walk me through that. You know, tell me whatever details you  43 
1 remember from that, those events. 
2 A They wanted to walk to the garage to see him just before he left town. 
3 They wanted to see him, from what I remember. We walked over there. I kind of 
4 hung back. I got to talking to the smaller guy out of the two that walked to the Phoenix 
5 with us, the Oath Keeper. 
6 
7 Q 
A Uh-huh. 
I can't remember --I can't remember his name, I apologize. But I talked to 
8 him, just where are you from and stuff, you know, and we kind of talked. And then we 
9 got into the garage. We actually had to find them, like I was late, you know what I 
10 mean? And so --but then we found them, and I remember they were just standing 
11 there talking. They gave hugs, and then that was it. I mean, I don't --I couldn't hear 
12 what they were saying, though. 
13 
14 Q 
A Did --
But I remember in the parking garage it was like where the media parked, so 
15 I remember seeing signs for different media sources. 
16 
17 Q 
A Did --do you remember where the other Oath Keepers were from? 
Hmm. No, sir. I just --I don't recall that conversation. I mean, I wish I 
18 could. I just don't. 
19 Q That's all right. 
20 Let's see. So after there's kind of this hugging, meet and greet, and conversation 
21 among some of those other people that you mentioned, what happened after that? 
22 A I believe they just went back to the hotel, sir. It's hard to remember exactly 
23 what happened after that, to be honest with you. 
24 Q That's all right. Did you --do you recall if you went back to the hotel with 
25 Mr. Rhodes?  44 
1 A I'm sure I did. I probably --I think --I think that we did go back to the hotel, 
2 sir. 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 Q I do want to ask you --
A I think --
Q Oh, go ahead. 
A No. Go ahead, sir. I apologize. 
Q No, that's okay. 
Okay. Well, then, so that --that sounds like that takes care of the day and night 
9 of the 5th. 
10 
11 A 
Q Uh-huh. 
Let's talk about --well, actually, first, I want to ask you, one, about any other 
12 chats from --there was a --if you had your phone and you could see, I would pull up a 
13 document that's the --some of the screenshots of that planning Signal chat. It's called 
14 the D.C. Op Jan 6th chat that you were on. 
15 Do you remember reading those messages or reading the communications 
16 between Oath Keepers that were going on about planning for January 6th? 
17 A I may have glanced at it, sir, but I don't --I can't recall any messages that 
18 were on there, to be honest. I mean, I just can't. 
19 Q Okay. There was some discussion about the QRF and how it would either 
20 get from northern Virginia to D.C. if needed, and there was discussions about using a boat 
21 to cross the river. Do you remember any of that? 
22 A I don't remember them discussing that about Washington, D.C., but I do 
23 remember, in Louisville, I can't remember who it was, but they were talking about using a 
24 boat. I think it was the North Carolina guys. 
25 Q Okay. All right. And then, so let's fast-forward to the morning of  45 
1 January 6th. How does --what'd you all do for the 6th? What was your --kind of just 
2 walk me through your day, and I'll stop you and ask you some specific questions at 
3 different points. 
4 A Okay. In the morning, we woke up pretty early. I remember Whip and 
5 Stewart went and had an early breakfast with someone. I don't recall who that was, but 
6 they had had breakfast. And we went down there, and Joe and I were supposed to 
7 meet up with some other Oath Keepers. 
8 They asked us --Stewart gave me a bag with, I think it was blue --blue tape for like 
9 arm bands for the guys to identify them. And I was supposed to --and he had some 
10 breakfast sandwiches. And I was --they were supposed to come and meet me in front 
11 of the Capitol. Like, to the corner, there's a roundabout right there with a statue in the 
12 middle of it. 
13 
14 
15 Q Yep. 
A Like --if you're familiar with what I'm talking about. And I --
Q Yeah. Actually, if you stop there, if you stop there I would --if you could 
16 see the screen, I would show you some more of the Signal chats, and there's a message 
17 that you send on the Signal chat at 10:36 a.m., and you note that you're near the Garfield 
18 Monument, which is one of the --
19 
20 A Okay. 
Q There's kind of two roundabouts on the west side of the Capitol. One is 
21 Peace Monument and then on the south side is the Garfield Monument. Does that ring 
22 a bell? 
23 
24 
25 A Yes, sir, it does. 
Q And so you all --your plan was to meet at the Garfield Monument? 
A Yes. They were just supposed to pick that up from me.  46 
1 Q There's another person that messages right after you on the Signal chat 
2 about 30 minutes later, and I think he also indicates that he's at the monument, and his 
3 Signal name was C Lawyer (ph). Do you know who that is? 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 A I don't know who that is. I didn't know the guys that I was supposed to give 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 that to. 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
Monument? 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q Do you know --
And, again, they never showed. 
Was it just you and Joe at the monument? 
Yes, sir, it was. 
Was Joe on Signal also? 
No, sir. 
All right. So what did you do when you and Joe got to the Garfield 
We just stood there and waited -
Was it --
--for --
Was it Mr. Rhodes that told you to meet there? 
Yes. 
Okay. 
That they were supposed to come and get that. 
How were you communicating with other Oath Keepers on that day? Was 
22 it just through Signal? 
23 A Yeah. I didn't have much communication with them other than, you know, 
24 with Whip, I guess. We just kind of hung out, and Whip was on the phone a lot. Other 
25 than that, I mean, there wasn't --I don't remember having the communication with Oath  47 
1 Keepers really. 
2 Q And I might have misunderstood you. Was Whip with you at the 
3 monument also? 
4 A No, sir. Stewart and Whip, and I can't remember if Kellye was there or not, 
5 they didn't meet us there. And then they went off to somewhere. I'm not sure where 
6 they went, but they went somewhere. 
7 Q What did you do after you realized nobody was meeting you at the Garfield 
8 Monument? 
9 A We went and met Whip at --ah, man, it was a stage. There was a stage. 
10 It was several blocks away from the Capitol. It was a small stage. I don't know what it 
11 would've been called. There was some people giving some speeches, and everybody 
12 was standing around there watching the --Trump give his speech. 
13 
14 
15 Q 
A 
Q Do you recall, did --were you or anybody else using radios on that day? 
I'm sorry? Say that again? 
Were you or anybody else using radios on that day? Did you see anybody 
16 using a radio? 
17 
18 
19 
20 A 
Q 
A 
Q No, sir. 
No other Oath Keepers that you saw? 
Not that I noticed, sir. 
And so once you got to this stage, do you remember, was there like a 
21 particular organization that was hosting that event or in control of that stage? Like, was 
22 it Latinos for Trump or Vets for Trump? 
23 
24 
25 A 
Q 
A I think it was. 
Okay. Which --
1 think it was Latinos for Trump, sir.  48 
1 Q Did --what did you know --I think we talked briefly about Bianca Gracia, 
2 who is the founder and leader of Latinos for Trump. What did you know about her? 
3 How had you been introduced to her? 
4 A I just --1 met her briefly there in that hotel room that evening, sir. She 
5 didn't really talk to me or anything. She was just there, you know. 
Okay. 6 
7 Q 
A Joe and I kind of just stood in the corner and stayed out of the way. Those 
8 other two Oath Keepers that walked with us to the Phoenix Hotel were like in there 
9 sitting on the couch, you know, mixing it up with everybody. 
10 Q Yeah. Why didn't you, you just didn't --weren't familiar with the people, or 
11 what was --
12 A Yeah, I didn't know them. I was never in a position in the Oath Keepers to, 
13 I guess, give my side of things and, you know. I just --I don't know. I wasn't involved 
14 in the conversations, I guess. I mean, that --the Veterans for Trump guy was really nice, 
15 like, here, man, take a beer. Do you want some pizza or --you know, he was real nice to 
16 us. But other than that, I mean, they didn't --you know, I don't --I don't remember 
17 anything, you know, in the hotel room that was --except for the Facebook Live video that 
18 they made, you know. 
19 Q Yeah. Okay. So you meet up with Whip at the Latinos for Trump stage, 
20 and you were at that time kind of watching or monitoring the President's speech. Is that 
21 right? 
22 A Yeah. We were just kind of standing there just talking. I remember it 
23 was --it was Whip, myself, Joe, and Todd Wilson, just standing off to the side of the stage. 
24 I mean, there was only --I don't know --if I had to guess, probably 30 people there. It 
25 wasn't --you know, it was super small. And we just kind of stood there and we were  49 
1 just joking around. 
2 Q And what happened? What happened after that? What was kind of your 
3 next move? 
4 
5 
6 A 
Q 
A We heard the explosions at the Capitol, so we walked over. 
What sort of explosions were you hearing? 
I'm assuming it was flash bangs and things like that. It just --it sounded like 
7 explosions to me. And then when we got over there, it was still going on, that people 
8 were trying to get inside the Capitol at that point. 
9 Q All right. And just take me through what you remember about what you 
10 observed as you got closer to the Capitol. 
11 A When we got close to the Capitol, Todd Wilson, he just disappeared like into 
12 the crowd, and I never saw him again until that evening. And then Whip and myself and 
13 Joe, we just kind of stood there and was watching it like, jeez. And then it got --it 
14 started getting real nasty, and they started, you know, shooting tear gas way back into 
15 the crowd and things. At a certain point, it got to the point where I told Whip, I said, 
16 man, we've got to get out of here, dude, or we're going to be --end up fighting these 
17 cops, you know. So we just --1 mean, we didn't leave the Capitol, but we got way back 
18 where we weren't in the way. You know what I mean? 
19 Q Yeah. At what point did you learn that other Oath Keepers had gone into 
20 the Capitol? 
21 A I guess later on in the day. I remember talking to one of the guys from 
22 Florida, and when he came out, he said, oh, man, yeah, we went in there and helped a 
23 cop, dude. They were all trying to attack him. And I remember he told me that. And 
24 that's why this whole time I've had such a hard time with all of the stories that I've been 
25 seeing about the Oath Keepers and how we're extremists and antigovernment, you know,  1 because I know I'm not, and it's just like --you know --you know what I'm saying? 
2 
3 
4 
5 Q Yeah. 
A It's hard. 
Q What --did --when did you find out that Todd had gone into the Capitol? 
A That evening. He was bragging about how --I mean, he was very happy 
6 about what he did. 
7 Q And what did he say about why he went into the Capitol, or what was he 
8 bragging about? 
9 A He was just saying, yeah, I went in, man. I was like one of the first dudes. 
10 I helped them bust that door in. That's how he was bragging. He didn't say like, you 
11 know, like his motivation to go in, I guess. 
12 
13 Q 
A Right. 
I've got to be honest, there was like an aura in the air, I guess, that, you 50 
14 know, where it almost seemed patriotic at a certain point, and then it was just like, what 
15 are you doing fighting cops, man, you know. So it just --I don't know. I don't know 
16 why he went in. I don't --still to this day, I'll be honest, I have a hard time believing that 
17 it was just set up to try to take over the Capitol and hold it. I just don't think anybody in 
18 their right mind would even imagine that that would be feasible. 
19 Q Did --1 know when we talked previously, you said there was some point in 
20 this interaction where Whip asked you if you wanted to go inside the Capitol. Is that 
21 right? 
22 A Yes, sir. We were standing outside just watching everything, and he was 
23 like, hey, man, you want to go in? And I said, fuck no, man. I said, I'm not fighting any 
24 cops, dude. And that was the end of it. 
25 Q Was it kind of clear to you from where you were standing that to get into the  51 
1 Capitol, you would've had to fight with some cops or engage with cops? 
One hundred percent, sir. 2 
3 A 
Q And so what do you --given that you could see that and recognize that, what 
4 do you make of the people who, you know, said that they went in to help the cops or that 
5 they were let in by the cops? 
6 A I just --it doesn't make any sense to me, sir, because I was there pretty much 
7 until the curfew. And even like right, right --like, they kind of just moved. They were 
8 fighting the whole time, trying to get in the Capitol. So, I mean, honestly, like, my true 
9 belief is you should have known better than to go in there. You know what I mean? 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q Yeah. 
I mean, it's just --
It was obvious to you --sorry. Go ahead. 
Yeah. I'm sorry, sir. Go ahead. 
Nope. That's okay. I was just going to say, it was obvious to you that 
15 people were not supposed to be entering the Capitol, that police were trying to prevent 
16 people from entering the Capitol? 
17 A Absolutely. And the police were working very hard to try to do that. And 
18 when officers, more officers would come and they would walk by me or something, it was 
19 always, sir, be careful. You know what I mean? And I was asked --you know, I was 
20 asked by another agency like, well, why didn't you go help the cops if you felt that way? 
21 And, you know, that huge mass crowd, if I would've went up there and tried to help the 
22 cops, the cops would've just beat me too. You know what I mean? I just felt like the 
23 right thing to do was to stay out of their way. 
24 
25 Q 
A Yeah. 
You know.  52 
1 Q Right. Yeah, there was little --little distinguishing between people at that 
2 point. 
3 
4 
5 A Right. 
Q Everybody was just --yeah. 
Okay. So the kind of time gets closer --well, actually, let me ask, we've been 
6 going for about a little over an hour now. Do you need a break or you want to just keep 
7 going along? I think we've probably got about maybe 30 more minutes or 45 more 
8 minutes at the most. 
9 
10 
11 
12 A 
Q 
A 
Q I'm okay, sir, if you want to continue. 
Okay. Yeah, let's just do that. 
Okay. 
So after Mr. Wilson kind of disappears into the crowd and you're still 
13 standing there with, I guess, is it Joe and Whip? 
14 
15 A 
Q Yes, sir. 
Okay. What --you know, you guys decide not to enter the Capitol. 
16 Where --where did you go after that? 
17 A I remember Whip was in contact with Stewart. I remember the cell phones 
18 weren't working very well, and he was trying to get a hold of Stewart, and I believe 
19 Stewart was trying to get a hold of him. I remember some conversation between the 
20 two that they were trying to figure out where each other were. 
21 And at one point, Whip said, hey, we've got to go meet Stewart over here, I guess 
22 it would've been the east side over kind of on the corner of the Capitol. And when we 
23 got over there, there were several Oath Keepers standing there in a group talking, 
24 including Stewart Rhodes. 
25 Q And do you remember the other Oath Keepers that were in the group?  53 
1 A I don't. I don't. I've been asked several times, you know, do you 
2 remember this guy with the dog and things like that, and I just --I don't even remember 
3 seeing a dog. I mean, I'm sure there's --they had pictures of me there --well, that 
4 group, and I never was like in the group. I just kind of stood over there and I wanted to 
5 watch. 
6 And then they all still staged there, and I remember, like, saying --saying, I'm 
7 going to go over on the side and just watch this thing, it's crazy. And we stood way back 
8 on the sidewalk and watched --we watched them trying to get into like the side of the 
9 Capitol. I think it would've been the east side at that time. 
10 Q Right. 
11 A And --and that lasted until pretty much the end of the riot. So, I mean, like 
12 going back to you asking me if people should have known better than going in, absolutely. 
13 I mean, they were still --they were still fighting bad, you know. 
14 Q Yeah. 
15 
16 A So --
Q What --do you remember --so there's a moment, incident, I think, where 
17 Mr. Rhodes lost track of his backpack, and he was trying to find the backpack that he had 
18 left maybe by the stage that you were at originally. Do you remember anything about a 
19 backpack? 
20 
21 A No, sir, I don't. 
Q So after you kind of congregate on the east side of the Capitol and the 
22 curfew is approaching, what happened after that? 
23 
24 
25 A When the curfew was approaching? 
Q Yeah. 
A We walked back to the Phoenix Hotel.  54 
1 Q Okay. And tell me about that. Who was in the group that walked back to 
2 the hotel? 
3 A Hmm, I don't remember everybody. I know me, Whip, and Joe, because 
4 we just stayed together. You know what I mean? Joe stayed with me and I stayed 
5 with Whip. 
6 
7 Q Was Stewart Rhodes with you? 
A Yes, he was in the group. I don't remember if Kellye was there or not. 
8 believe the guy from Veterans for Trump was there. 
9 Q And so you all just walked back to the Phoenix Park Hotel. And what 
10 happens when you get to the hotel? 
11 A On the second level, there's a lobby waiting area, sir. And it was very cold 
12 that day and, you know, it was --felt like it was --that day was, you know, 130 hours or 
13 so. And I remember getting a cup of coffee and hanging out in there. And they kept 
14 the doors locked. So I remember Joe and I went outside to smoke, and we got stuck out 
15 there, I mean, for it felt like an exceptionally long time. I don't know how long now, but 
16 everybody else was inside, I guess, up in the hotel room having a meeting or doing 
17 something. 
18 Q Yeah. That's what I --I wanted to ask you a little bit about that. What 
19 was the --what was this meeting? Did you hear anything about it, or who was in the 
20 meeting? 
21 A You know, I don't. I know that Whip was up there, because I remember 
22 even --I may have texted him or --I'm sure it was a text. I mean, I really never got on 
23 Signal, you know. It was just saying like, hey, man, come on, like, I'm going to take an 
24 Uber back to the hotel. Like, I was getting frustrated at that point it took so long. 
25 Q And what did Whip say back to you?  55 
1 A I can't remember his response, but I'm sure he was trying to hurry or 
2 something, you know. I just --I honestly can't remember that, sir. 
3 Q How did you know he was in the meeting? 
4 A Well, we all walked over there together and he went inside, you know. 
5 didn't know there was like a big meeting going on. I just thought they were all up in that 
6 hotel room like just BSing or something. But, you know, I didn't know what was going 
7 on up there. I wasn't invited to that one. 
8 Q Did --do you still have text messages with Whip? 
9 A Hmm. You know, I'm not sure on that, sir. I'm not sure. The FBI went 
10 through my phone pretty good, and I don't know if I --and I haven't even turned that 
11 phone on since I got a new one. When I moved down here, I just switched to AT&T, so 
12 that was a Verizon phone and I had to get a different one. 
13 Q Okay. When --I'll follow up with you after this interview and I'll ask if you 
14 can, one, check your Signal app on that phone and see if you still have messages, and 
15 then see if you have text messages with Whip still. 
16 
17 
18 A Absolutely. 
Q And we'll try to collect those. 
Okay. So what I want to read to you quickly, and, again, this is a document I 
19 would've shown you if your screen was working, but this is exhibit 1 to this interview. 
20 And it's the indictment --or, sorry, actually, the statement of offense attached to 
21 Mr. Todd Wilson's plea. 
22 Have you seen or have you read anything about Todd Wilson pleading to certain 
23 charges? 
24 
25 A 
Q No, sir, I have not read it. 
Okay. Well, there's a paragraph 44 in his statement of offense I'm just  56 
1 going to read to you real quick. And he says, At the Phoenix Hotel, Rhodes gathered 
2 Wilson and other coconspirators inside of the private suite. Rhodes then called an 
3 individual over speakerphone. Wilson heard Rhodes repeatedly implore the individual 
4 to tell President Trump to call upon groups like the Oath Keepers to forcibly oppose the 
5 transfer of power. This individual denied Rhodes' request to speak directly with 
6 President Trump. After the call ended, Rhodes stated to the group, quote, "I just want 
7 to fight," end quote. 
8 Do you --did you ever talk to Todd about this meeting or hear anything else about 
9 who Stewart might have been trying to call? 
10 
11 A No, sir. I never heard about that until you told me about it the other day. 
Q Okay. And then do --do you recall any other --kind of where else, if 
12 anywhere, Mr. Rhodes went on the night of the 6th? 
13 
14 
15 A Yes. The night of the 6th we had dinner at Olive Garden. 
Q And did you go straight from the Phoenix Park Hotel to the Olive Garden? 
A No, sir. We went back to the hotel first. I wanted to stay in my room, and 
16 Whip came to my room and was like, come on, man, I'm starving, please go with me. 
17 And I was like, man, I had a headache and everything. I mean, there was a lot of people 
18 that got tear-gassed, that, you know, I'd say, hey, sir, come, on, like, get up. Like, they 
19 would think --they thought they were dying, you know, and they were standing way back 
20 from where people were trying to attack the Capitol. 
21 And, you know, if you've never been tear-gassed before --I don't know if you have 
22 or not --but it's --you know, you think you're dying, especially if you've never had it 
23 happen before. 
24 Q Yeah. 
25 A You know. And so there were a lot of innocent people that weren't trying  57 
1 to get in the Capitol that got tear-gassed, which, you know, I mean, I'm not saying the 
2 cops did anything wrong. That could be their SOP of doing things. I don't understand 
3 crowd control, how you're supposed to do it or how they were supposed to react. I'm 
4 just saying that, you know, a lot of people got tear-gassed that probably shouldn't have, 
5 in my opinion, but that's strictly my opinion, you know. 
6 Q Got it. Let's talk about the Olive Garden dinner a little bit. Who --who do 
7 you remember being at the Olive Garden? 
8 A I remember myself, Whip, Todd Wilson, Stewart Rhodes, Kellye, Joe, Josh 
9 James. And there was another group, I didn't know their --oh, and there was an older 
10 guy with long hair. Now I have found out that that was Ed Vallejo. I didn't know who 
11 that was and had never met him at the time. 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 Q Do you --
A And there was another group, I believe it was 1AP or --
Q Right. 
A --AP1 or something like that. 
Q Yeah. 1AP stands for 1st Amendment Praetorians. 
A Okay. 
Q Do you recall the name of those guys that were there, 1st Amendment 
19 Praetorians? 
20 A I do not, sir. I remember --oh, in the car with Whip on the way back to our 
21 hotel, the Hilton, I remember Josh James calling him and saying, hey, man, we've got to 
22 have dinner with Stewart. I kind of want him to meet these guys. They're really good 
23 dudes. 
24 And I remember Whip was like, well, why the hell's he calling me? He already 
25 called Stewart and wanted the dinner. You know what I mean? So Stewart was  1 already aware, I guess. So then he called Whip to try to get Stewart to come. 
2 Q Okay. So you --by your understanding, it was Josh James that was 
3 introducing Stewart to the 1AP folks? 
4 
5 
6 A 
Q 
A Yes, sir. 
What do you remember being discussed at the Olive Garden that night? 
What I can remember --we kind of sat on the end. So Whip and I kind of 
7 had our own discussion, and Joe sat at the other end of the table. But, anyways, I 
8 remember him talking about going back, I want to say January 17th they were talking 
9 about going back. I could be wrong on the date, though, sir. But they were 
10 talking back --he was talking to the leader of that 1AP, Stewart was, talking about when 
11 they're going to go back and if they should carry weapons or not. 
12 Q Do --and what were they saying about whether or not they should carry 
13 weapons? 
14 A You know, I don't --I don't think they actually came to like a conclusion. 
15 think they were just kind of ball parking and just discussing about what the next step for 
16 them is. So it seemed like that 1AP was wanting to team up with the Oath Keepers or 
17 Stewart was wanting to use them and do something. I don't know. I mean, there 
18 wasn't major planning. 
19 Q Gotcha. What was --if they were talking about bringing weapons, do you 
20 know what the purpose of bringing weapons or not was or what was --what was their 
21 concern? 
No, sir, I don't. I just --1 couldn't honestly say. I mean --58 
22 
23 A 
Q Do you remember the organization Veterans for Trump being discussed that 
24 night? 
25 A No, sir, I don't.  59 
1 Q And then, how about anything --did Ms. SoRelle ever take part in that 
2 conversation? Do you recall anything she said? 
3 A Not really, sir. She sat right beside Stewart, but I don't --it's just been a 
4 long time. I can't --I wish I could tell you. Like I told the FBI, I wish to God I would've 
5 wore a body camera the whole time, you know, and been like here you go. 
6 Q There's --so there were some messages from the 10th on the D.C. Op Jan. 6 
7 from January 10th, so a couple days later, that you had sent to the group, and I want to 
8 read one and see if it jogs your memory about what was discussed that night. 
9 And so you said --part of the message is cut off on the top, or I think you sent one 
10 message before this. And you said, on the 10th, at 5:51 in the morning, Sadly, he isn't 
11 willing to fight, so now it's up to us. And patriots are standing up in their State capitols 
12 all over. Just like Ms. Kellye was talking about at dinner, the fight is in our States. 
13 
14 Do you remember what you were talking about in terms of --
A I never sent that. I don't know that --that's under my name on 
15 January 10th? 
16 
17 Q 
A Yep. It's a message from Landon Bentley to the Signal group. 
Stewart used my phone coming back from the Capitol, and I've already 
18 discussed those messages. I wasn't --I don't ever post on there. So him saying on 
19 January 10th under my name, I mean, I've never --that's the first I've heard of that. 
20 don't --like, I never said it's our turn to fight or anything, you know, nor --at least I don't 
21 remember saying that, and especially at the capitols in the States. I remember 
22 somebody talking about that, but --I mean, like, again, I don't --like storming a capitol 
23 anywhere, whether it be the United States or a different State, it's just like you've got to 
24 be out of your damn mind, you know. 
25 Q Were there --what did --well, maybe let's talk --what did you do after the  1 night of the 6th? 
2 A Drove home with Stewart Rhodes. He asked me for a ride in the parking 
3 garage of the Hilton Hotel. 
4 Q Okay. And where --where all did you --just take me through sort of the 
5 next couple days or where you went after that. 
6 A He said --he asked me if he could ride home with me. And then, so he 
7 said, I'll just ride back to Kentucky with you, man, because Kellye had to stay there for a 
8 meeting, he said. And he said he would ride back to Kentucky with me and go on to 
9 Texas from there. 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 Q And --
A And he asked me if that was okay. 
Q And so you drove --was it you and Joe and Mr. Rhodes that drove back? 
A Yes, sir, it was. 
Q And did Mr. Rhodes stay with you after that? 
A He --well, we got there, we drove through the night and got home. And 60 
16 then the next day he woke up and he was trying to get a rental car, and he couldn't get --I 
17 mean, like, I live in, you know, rural Kentucky. It's --we don't --the closest rental car 
18 agency is probably, you know, Lexington, which is an hour and a half or so. 
19 And so he asked me if he could borrow my car, and I know this sounds really bad, 
20 but it's just an older car, I didn't really care. And I was just like, yeah, that's fine, man. 
21 Because I just always thought Stewart was a pretty stand-up guy. I mean, I didn't think 
22 anything --I didn't think he broke the law at all. You know what I mean? 
23 
24 Q Yeah. 
A I just didn't, honestly. And I know it's probably hard to believe for some 
25 people, but, you know, it's unfortunate, man. You know, it's really, really ruined my life  61 
1 here the past couple years, and I was just trying to be a good guy, you know, like, yeah, 
2 man, I'm give you a ride, no problem, you know. 
3 Q And so did he end up --when did he end up leaving? Did he find a rental 
4 car on the 8th? 
5 A Hmm. Oh, no, sir, he drove my car. No, he left that very next day, sir. 
6 That would've been the 7th. That's why that message that you're telling me about 
7 makes absolutely no sense. That makes no sense. 
8 Q The --okay. So --so on the --so the night --so it was the night of the 6th 
9 that you drive back to Kentucky? 
10 
11 A Yes, sir. 
Q Okay. And then the morning of the 7th, he took your car, but he --did he 
12 take it to Texas or do you mean he took it to Louisville to pick up a rental car? 
13 A No. He tried to --I guess he tried to take it to Texas, because he was 
14 wanting me to come to Texas that next week, which I didn't do just because I had things 
15 going on and I had no desire to go to Texas, you know. But he took my car, and actually 
16 the motor blew up on it in Tennessee on him. So I could --I can't tell you for certain 
17 where he was actually headed, but I do know that it broke down in Tennessee and I had 
18 to put a new motor in it, and I had to go down and get it, so --
19 Q Okay. And so where --what did Mr. Rhodes do after the motor blew up on 
20 him? 
21 A He put a new motor in my car. 
22 I'm really, sorry, man, I blew your car up. He paid for it. He called me and he said, 
And he said, I'll be happy to get it fixed for 
23 you. And I thought that was pretty nice of him, you know. 
24 
25 Q And how did he --how did he get out of Tennessee? 
A I believe he met Kellye. I think Kellye met him and took him on down.  62 
1 That's my understanding, sir. 
2 
3 
4 Q 
A 
Q And then, did you just go to Tennessee and pick up your car? 
I did, but it was way after. That guy had it forever. 
Okay. Yeah. So I'm just a little --there's another message on the 10th, 
5 and so I guess I'm just a little confused about the messages. You don't ever remember 
6 using Signal to talk to other Oath Keepers after the 6th? 
7 A I mean, I may have, but what that message is saying, it's up to us to fight and 
8 stuff and take --get capitols or whatever you said, I mean, that's just something that I 
9 wouldn't have said. That doesn't make any --you know, you can interview a million 
10 people that know me and there's no way. 
11 
12 10th? 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q Yeah. Was there somebody else that had access to your phone on the 
Not on the 10th, I mean, I wouldn't imagine. There was nobody else there. 
Yeah. 
So I don't know how that would happen. 
Because there's --
Can you read me that message again, sir? 
Yeah, sure. So it says --it's on January 10, 2021. And there's another one 
19 after it that I was going to read to you also. But it says, Sadly, he isn't willing to fight, so 
20 now it's up to us. Patriots are standing up in their State capitols all over. Just like 
21 Ms. Kellye was talking about at dinner, the fight is in our States. 
22 A That just sounds like Stewart. And that's under my name? Ms. Kellye, 
23 like, I had --like, Kellye was just a nut case from day one when I met her. I mean, it 
24 doesn't --do you know what I'm saying? 
25 Q Yeah. So that message is at 5:00 --or, you know, according to the  63 
1 screenshot, it was at 5:51 on the 10th. And then there's another message at 5:54 in the 
2 morning on the 10th, also under your name. It says Landon Bentley. And then it says, 
3 And like Stewart said, if Trump won't do Insurrection Act, then we will walk the same path 
4 as founders of defiance, nullification, raising militia in mutual defense. 
5 And then the message ends --your message ends with, I've got militia to organize. 
6 A I mean, I've got --I can say with absolute 100 percent certainty that I never 
7 sent those messages. So now I would really like to find out how that's even possible. 
8 
9 Q 
A Yeah. Did Mr. Rhodes ever --you said he used your phone at some point? 
He did on the way, while we were driving back from D.C. He did just very 
10 briefly, though. There was some messages that night, but that would've been on 
11 the --like, I guess the 6th, maybe the 7th if it was after midnight, you know. 
12 
13 Q 
A Would --
But, no, sir, I wasn't with Mr. Rhodes on the 10th. I mean, and there's no 
14 way I sent that. I mean, that's just --you can give me a polygraph. You can do 
15 whatever you would like, I mean, honestly. I've cooperated fully and I continue --I will 
16 still, you know. But that --that right there is something that I never knew and I wish I 
17 would have. 
18 Q You know, I mean, now --I mean, I will say, it's possible the --there are 
19 timestamps --or kind of date stamps on these chats, but the way they read, they actually 
20 indicate that they're probably the night of the 6th or the morning of the 7th. And you 
21 think that's the time that Mr. Rhodes had your phone? 
22 A Guaranteed, yeah. And Joe was in the car as well, so I wouldn't have --I 
23 was driving, and he was like, hey, man, you care if I hop on Signal on your phone? 
24 didn't think anything about it until the FBI was like, hey, man, you sent these messages, 
25 like --I was like, I didn't send that message. I didn't even know --you know what I  64 
1 mean? 
Yeah. 2 
3 Q 
A I mean, and I know that's probably really hard to believe. I know it is. But 
4 it's just like that's the truth, and that's why I've been caught up in all this, and it's like, 
5 man, I haven't --I really didn't break one law. I don't believe in storming the Capitol. 
6 don't believe in storming any capitol. I don't even believe in protesting, going out there 
7 yelling and screaming. That doesn't make any sense in my mind. So --
8 Q Yeah. So I just --just to kind of close the loop on the text. So you --so 
9 you think that these were probably something that Mr. Rhodes sent while he was using 
10 your phone on the night of the 6th or the morning of the 7th? 
11 
12 A 
Q Yes, sir. I would say so. 
Okay. And did --do you remember what time you ended up getting back to 
13 Kentucky? Was it early morning or --
14 A It was. It was early morning. I can't remember how long it takes, I don't 
15 know, 7 or 8 hours, I believe, to get home from D.C. 
16 
17 
18 Q 
A 
Q Okay. 
So it was early morning. 
Okay. So these ones say --these ones look like they were sent at 5:00 or 
19 almost 6:00 in the morning. Does that sound like when you would've ended that drive? 
20 A That would've made sense, but, I mean, I'm sure --we were probably still 
21 driving, I would say, because I don't remember him using --I do. I do. When we were 
22 at my house, like, we were sleeping, and he was going to get up and go. And when we 
23 were at my house, I got a phone call from --I think it was like a Signal call maybe from, I 
24 can't remem---I don't know who she is, but from a person named Horse Whisperer 
25 Texas, and calling my phone wanting to talk to Stewart.  65 
1 So I answered the phone, I didn't know who it was, and then I gave the phone to 
2 Stewart. But other than that, I mean, that would've been the only access that he had to 
3 my phone, I believe, because he went to Dollar General and bought like a little prepaid 
4 phone. 
5 Q Okay. Understood. Did you ever --do you remember ever having any 
6 other conversations or seeing other messages from Horse Whisperer Texas? 
7 
8 A 
Q I --I don't remember, sir. I honestly don't. 
There was --there's one other earlier message. So that --the two that we 
9 just read were 5:51 and 5:54 a.m. There were two earlier messages, one at 5:43, and 
10 it's a message from you again. It says Landon Bentley, 5:43. It says, I'm rolling home, 
11 brothers. Good to stand with you. Everyone good, question mark. All quiet in D.C., 
12 question mark. 
13 Do you --you don't recall sending that message out or you think that might have 
14 been Stewart --
15 A I know for a fact I did not send that message. And I recall those messages 
16 because the FBI questioned me about that. 
17 
18 
19 
20 Q 
A 
Q 
A Okay. So these are the ones that the FBI asked you about? 
Yes, sir. 
The next one says, Got a family farm to run, unfortunately. 
Yep, I remember that, and that made me --that upset me greatly. That 
21 made me really mad, because now he's using my grandpa in it, and he was trying to 
22 pretend to be me without my knowledge, and he was sitting right next to me in the 
23 vehicle. 
24 Q Right. That is --that is very strange. 
25 So when you --when you --you figured that out when the FBI talked to you?  66 
1 A Yeah. I honestly didn't know --I didn't go back and read through the 
2 messages or anything, so I never knew that happened until they brought --they had them 
3 printed out and everything, like, hey, man, what does this mean, you know. And as 
4 soon as they did that, that gave me an indication that, you know, definitely something's 
5 wrong here. 
6 Q And the --did they show you the other two messages that we had just talked 
7 about, the one about patriots or standing up in State capitols and the Insurrection Act? 
8 Did they show you those ones? 
9 A They may have, but I just don't remember them. Like, whenever you said 
10 that, and especially saying January 10th, I was like, no, man, that's absolutely impossible. 
11 
12 
13 Q Yeah. I think --
A That's impossible for me. 
Q I think given --I think actually given what --what's in the messages, these 
14 were likely --I don't know why it's saying January 10th --but that these were actually 
15 likely messages sent on the night of the 6th or morning of the 7th. 
16 
17 A Right. 
Q Okay. Well, let's --on the --just one other question about that Olive 
18 Garden meal, and sort of as it relates to that meeting we talked about in the Phoenix Park 
19 Hotel. Do you remember Stewart ever talking about trying to get in touch with anybody 
20 that would put him in touch with the President? 
21 A No, I don't. I really honestly don't. Like, the day that you called me, I 
22 started seeing articles about, you know --and I'm seeing these people on TV talk about it, 
23 like, you know, Trump or Mr. Rhodes was getting a hold of Trump, Trump knew about the 
24 Oath Keepers and stuff, and there's all these articles out there now. You know, and it's 
25 just like, man, I --I don't know anything about that, and you think I would. You know  1 what I mean? 
2 
3 Q 
A Right. 
You would think I would've heard about that, but I don't know, man. I'm 
4 just --I live in a world now where it's hard to believe anything. 
5 Q Okay. So but from your recollection of that night, you don't remember a 
6 discussion. That's understandable. 
7 A Yeah. 
8 Q Okay. Then let's talk --let's talk about just your meetings with the FBI 67 
9 about January 6th and the Oath Keepers and those. How many times have you met with 
10 the FBI about that? 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 A Just a few times, I guess. 
Q Okay. 
A I don't --
Q And do you recall --do you recall when those meetings were? 
A I'm sorry? 
Q Do you recall when those meetings were? 
A I don't remember when the first meeting was, month or anything like that. 
18 It was --I remember it was hot outside again. I was working on the farm, and when I got 
19 home, there was a card from the FBI on my door. 
20 Q And so that first meeting, when --do you recall how long --about how long 
21 that meeting was? 
22 
23 A I would say I was in there for a few hours at least, and I drove to their office. 
Q And what did they --did they talk to you --did they talk with you about 
24 anything we haven't talked about today? 
25 A I mean, honestly, the questioning has been extremely similar, like walk me  68 
1 through the days. They were more, I guess, more in depth of exactly what happened 
2 and timeframes and this and that. You know what I mean? 
Yeah. 3 
4 Q 
A And they had pictures and things like that that --I mean, the questioning was 
5 very, very similar. They showed me the messages that you were just talking about. 
6 don't remember the one about the capitols. I mean, maybe they just showed me the 
7 ones that, you know, he would say --because I remember there was one that's, going 
8 home, brothers, got a family farm, and then some other guy, I can't remember who it 
9 was, said why are you leaving so soon, the party just started, or something like that. 
10 And I remember that made me mad, you know.  69 
1 
2 [12:08 p.m.] 
3 BYMR . : 
Q Yes, that was the response, a message from Mr. Vallejo? 4 
5 A Yeah. So I mean, it just --because he just right there is just trying to act like 
6 he's me to keep himself out of trouble. 
7 Q Right. And then anything else, any other kind of major topics that you 
8 discussed with the FBI that we haven't talked about today? 
9 A Not that I can remember, sir. I mean, not --you know, nothing --nothing 
10 like that I can remember that stands out, like, oh, man, you definitely need to know about 
11 this. You know what I mean? 
12 
13 Q 
A Right. 
Yeah, I want to help you too. I mean, just let me know what you need and 
14 I'm all in, man. I mean, just, you know. 
15 
16 
17 
18 Q And then I think you said you met with the FBI again after that? 
A I have. I've talked to them a few different times. 
Oh, Stewart --they took a rifle that Stewart had left at my house. 
Q Did you ever see --that's not a question --did you ever see Mr. Rhodes 
19 purchasing kind of firearms or kind of accoutrements or other related equipment or 
20 anything like that? 
21 
22 
23 A No, sir, I didn't. I was never with him when he was shopping. 
Q What was the --
A But he did have, when he put his stuff in my car, he did have several bags 
24 from, I want to say Academy Sports. We don't have those from around here, but I think 
25 I remember that's what it is.  70 
Do you know what was in those bags? 1 
2 Q 
A I think it was just accessories for ARs or something like that. Maybe some 
3 ammo and things. It looked like he just bought them is what I'm getting at. 
4 Q Right, right. And what was the rifle that he left at your house? 
5 
6 
7 
8 A It was an AR. 
Q All right. So they took that AR. 
You said that they looked at your phone? 
A They did. Yeah, I actually gave them my phone, that old one that I was 
9 telling you about. 
10 Q Yeah. 
11 A They had that. In my first interview, I voluntarily said, here, I mean, do 
12 whatever, please. Just do whatever you got to do to clear me from this because I didn't 
13 have anything to do with it. 
14 So, I mean, I gave them my phone. I cooperated. I have done everything that I 
15 possibly can. 
16 Q Did you give them anything else other than the phone, any documents, or 
17 anything like that? 
18 A No, sir. I mean, I didn't have any documents. It was the phone. Then 
19 they came to my house. I guess it was kind of like a second interview. They were just 
20 asking me pretty much the same questions maybe to see if I was lying or something. 
21 But that's when they took the --they asked me, is it okay if we come to your 
22 house? And I said yeah. Even when they were there, I said, yeah, search my house. 
23 Do whatever you want. 
24 
25 Q And then that's when they took the AR? 
A Yes, sir. I told them about it in the first interview, so they were planning to  71 
1 take that anyway. 
2 Q How about did they ask for any emails or anything like that, any other kind 
3 of communications other than the ones that were on your phone? 
4 A No, sir. I mean, I didn't have --there were no emails between us. I mean, 
5 if there were, it was just probably like an automated something after I joined. You know 
6 what I'm saying? 
7 Q Yeah. So the first meeting, that was a few hours in the FBI office that took 
8 place, and then there was a second meeting in your house. How long did that meeting 
9 last? 
10 A That was --I would say that was several hours as well, sir. 
11 Q And then were there any other meetings about the January 6th topic and 
12 Mr. Rhodes? 
13 A There's been several phone calls and things like that. We talked about --I 
14 mean, really, that's about it. I mean, they called me, like, hey, man, do you remember 
15 this or that? But those were like the two like official interviews that I did. 
16 Q Right. And when was the last time that you talked to the FBI about Mr. 
17 Rhodes or the Oath Keepers? 
18 A It's been a little while now. I talked to the FBI recently, but it wasn't really 
19 about Mr. Rhodes. 
20 Q Okay. All right. And then when you say "a little while," you mean was it 
21 this year, or was it last year that you talked to them about Mr. Rhodes or the Oath 
22 Keepers? 
23 A Well, I don't really know, sir, which --1 mean, it's been a while since I've been 
24 interviewed for the January 6th attack. 
25 Q Got it. Just a couple more questions on those messages that you think Mr.  1 Rhodes sent pretending to be you. 
2 Did the FBI ever acknowledge that or tell you that they knew that to be true or 
3 that they believed that also? 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 A Yeah, they told me they believed me on that, I mean. 
Q Okay. 
A Yeah. 
Q Okay. 
A And that is the God's honest truth. 
Q Did you ever have any more contact with Mr. Rhodes after he left your 
10 house and replaced the engine in your car? 
11 A Not really. He called me shortly after January 6th and was like, hey, man, 
12 you know, all we can do now is just try to build up your communities and bring your 
13 community back together. And that was pretty much --I think that was him kind of 
14 saying, hey, man, I'm done with you. You know what I mean? 
Q Yeah. And then that was the last time you spoke? 
A Yes, sir. I haven't spoke to Stewart in, shoot, it's been a really long time. 72 
15 
16 
17 Q Well, then, I think, unless there's anything else that you wanted to discuss or 
18 address, I think we're pretty much done with the interview here. 
19 Anything that we didn't talk about today that you think we should be aware of or 
20 that we should talk about? 
21 A No, not that I can think of, sir. But if you have any other questions, you can 
22 give me a shout for sure. 
23 Q Sure. Yeah, we'll do that. And I'll follow up with you by email about the 
24 text messages with Whip and other Signal messages you might have on your phone. 
25 A Okay.  73 
1 Q And do you still have your log-in and your password for Signal that you'd be 
2 able to access on your phone? 
3 A You know, I haven't even turned that phone on, sir, in so long. I can charge 
4 it. I'm sure it's dead. It's been upstairs for an exceptionally long time now. 
5 But I would assume --I mean, I never deleted anything. So I would assume, if I 
6 opened the Signal app, it would still be on there, I guess. 
7 Q Okay. Yes, if you wouldn't mind, if I could get you to try to charge it and 
8 see if you're still able to log into Signal and read the messages that are there. 
9 
10 
11 you. 
12 A 
Q 
A Uh-huh. 
And then we can talk about the best and easiest way to collect those from 
Okay. Okay. I hate having to go through this twice. 
13 Q Yeah. 
14 A It just doesn't --it doesn't make sense to me being that it's all the 
15 government. You know what I mean? But I don't know how you guys operate. 
16 Q Yeah. And, no, I appreciate that. I'm sure it's frustrating. And as I 
17 explained on the --when we talked on the phone call, it's just a function of DOJ has their 
18 separate criminal investigation, which is different than the congressional investigation, 
19 different purposes. 
20 We don't have any involvement in the criminal prosecutions. Our mission is to 
21 really understand the facts and circumstances and figure out what the legislature needs 
22 to do and what kind of fixes need to happen legislatively to prevent this sort of thing from 
23 happening again. 
24 A Yeah. That makes me nervous as well, sir. Sometimes you can't just 
25 change laws to make sure nothing happens again. Maybe enforce laws a little more, but  74 
1 changing them makes me nervous. 
2 Q Yeah. Well, no, I'm not saying that's the only fix, but, obviously, I think 
3 that's at least part of that and should be considered. 
4 So that's just to say that there are separate processes in the way that --the reason 
5 that you are going to answer these questions twice is just because we, Congress, doesn't 
6 get involved in the criminal aspect and the criminal prosecutions. 
7 A Sure. 
8 Q So if you can charge the phone and check and see and let me know if 
9 [inaudible] then we'll talk after that about those messages. 
10 
11 A 
Q Okay. 
So it sounds like, I think, we're done with questioning. I just want to take a 
12 minute while we're on the record to just thank you for your time and for being so 
13 cooperative with us and answering all the questions that I had. We certainly appreciate 
14 your help in us understanding what happened on that day. 
15 A Yes, sir. Thank you guys. 
16 Q All right. Then we will put the Tl into recess at 12:17. 
17 [Whereupon, at 2:17 p.m., the interview was recessed, subject to the call of the 
18 chair.]  1 
2 
3 Certificate of Deponent/Interviewee 
4 I have read the foregoing __ pages, which contain the correct transcript of the 
5 answers made by me to the questions therein recorded. 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 Witness Name 
Date 75 