From: 
Sent: 
To: 
Subject: 
Attachments: 
Mayor, Katherine Friess 
Monday, January 4, 2021 2:29 PM EST 
Maria Ryan; Bernie Kerik; 
Chairman Graham dead votes memo for your consideration 
Chairman Graham Memo KF.docx, GA dead voters -Geels.xlsx · Christina Bobb; 
Attached please find a memo to Senator Graham, along with the spreadsheet from the 
Kaufman/Geels team, regarding dead voters in GA. 
This is significantly smaller in scope that we expected, and only includes Georgia, due to the 
following issues: 
1. PA numbers were not able to be verified; the final list of dead voters sent by Vincent, who runs 
CheckYourVote.org, only included voters who had died AFTER election day 
2. Ml numbers were from the CheckYourVote website and since we could not verify those -and 
given their problems with PA -I don't believe we should send those to Chairman Graham 
3. NV numbers only had DOB and DOD, and did not include the ballot return date -and I do not 
have the name of the group who provided those numbers, and thus, do not believe we should 
provide those to him without that information 
The Chairman very specifically said that he only wanted verified numbers, with names that he could 
publicly use, for dead voters. When felons and those who voted in 2 states were offered to him, he 
said to go ahead and include those too, if we had the information verified and the names were 
provided. Thus, to meet his specific request, the attached is provided. I would recommend that if we 
wish to provide information other than verified numbers and names, that we do it in a separate 
memo, as I do not think he will be pleased with something other than that which meets his specific 
request. He did not seem interested in anything beyond the dead voters, which he thinks will 
resonate with the intended audience. 
One last item -many of the dead voters on the GA list sent their vote in before they passed. I don't 
think this makes a particularly strong case, and I think it is possible that Chairman Graham will push 
back on that. Almost all of them died in October of 2020, a few in November of 2020, and a few in 
September 2020. I think this makes the case for unfortunate timing -many sent their ballots before 
they passed -rather than nefarious activity. Am raising this just so that everyone is aware of what 
the data actually says. 
CONFIDENTIAL BOBB_ CONG _00000621  I Katherine E. Friess, Esq. I CEO I Seven Good Stones, LLC I kef@hushmail.com I c 202.330.1661 I 
www.7GS.us I 
CONFIDENTIAL BOBB_ CONG _00000622 