From: 
To: 
Sent: -av­on behalf of Vince Haley 
Dan Huff 
Subject: State legislature plenary power under Constitution to slate electoral college electors 
See information below on state legislative power to choose presidential electors, including treatment of Bush v 
Gore on this issue from 2000 post election fight. 
In brief, it sure seems that state legislatures have the absolute power under the Constitution to slate presidential 
electors -and even to take back its power if they delegated it under state law. (Apparently Bush v gore 
indicated that such exercise of plenary power would be qualified to ensure that such exercise of power 
complied with 14th amendment's equal protection provisions. I say that would be part of the argument for state 
legislature to step in -to protect the equal rights of all citizens to a fair vote.) 
This would be the biggest Trump card of all: Republican state legislatures in PA, Ml, WI, GA, NC potentially 
slating electors for Trump, notwithstanding a contrary a popular vote outcome certified by their Secretaries of 
State (and it may even lead to competing slates sent to Congress). 
The simplest rationale for their action would be that it was clear that the shenanigans undertaken by the 
democrats had placed the TRUE outcome of the vote in question, and the legislature was stepping forward to 
provide an ACCOUNTABLE outcome. 
This ultimate strategy is bolstered by our efforts to document misdeeds in the voting in those states. To raise 
substantial and credible doubt. 
In my view it is incumbent on our side to: 
1. Stop the counting now. We must get these counts stopped now until we can agree on the legitimacy of the 
ongoing count and way to conduct the count -eligibility of voters etc (and likely recounts) . It is going to be very 
difficult politically to argue against a final result if it goes against us. Makes us look like we are taking back a 
result. 
2. We need a mechanism to acquire ammunition for lawyers. A call in line or website to collect information on 
irregularities. We need facts for lawsuits. We need to make sure no documents (or ballots) are destroyed. We 
must focus on paper ballots. The Dems greatest fear will be counting paper ballots with rules everybody agrees 
on, especially to acquire a meaningful recount. 
Ultimately the state legislature is the political body responsible / accountable for the integrity of the vote in 
their state. If a robust factual case can be made in these states that various shenanigans led to a disputed 
outcome on counting votes properly ( eg universal mail in ballots started in middle of election year) that led to 
inconclusive outcomes we will never know, these legislators may be able to persuasively argue that in place of 
an unclear outcome, they are providing an ACCOUNTABLE outcome for the people of their states. 
***** 
BACKGROUND ON STATE LEGISLATIVE POWER TO SLATE ELECTORS 
In Florida during the 2000 Presidential election, the State Legislature asserted its authority 
to allocate Florida's electoral votes to George Bush. " 
Amid rising partisan tensions, the Republican majority in the Florida Legislature moved closer Monday 
toward an unprecedented effo1i to directly award the state's 25 electoral votes to George W. Bush. 
VMH-00003543  In legal papers filed with the U.S. Supreme Court, the Legislature asserted broad authority to 
allocate Florida's electoral votes even if the state courts order further recounts of presidential 
ballots that could give the lead to Democrat Al Gore. Speaker of the House Tom Feeney and 
Senate President John McKay, both Republicans close to Gov. Jeb Bush, signaled Monday that a 
special legislative committee meeting for the first time today would examine the Legislature's 
authority to appoint its own slate of electors. 'If this controversy is ... unresolved by Dec. 12, the 
Legislature has the authority and may have the responsibility to step in,' said McKay, who 
represents a Tampa, Fla., district." "Using even stronger language, Feeney--who served as Jeb 
Bush's running mate in his unsuccessful 1994 gubernatorial bid--insisted that the Florida Supreme 
Court had usurped the authority of the Legislature by permitting counties to conduct manual 
recounts through Sunday. He strongly hinted that the Legislature may move to name its own 
electors if the state courts don't quickly dismiss Gore's formal contest against Secretary of State 
Katherine Harris' certification of George W. Bush as the official winner in the state." (Los Angeles 
Times -11/28/2000) 
The Supreme Court in Bush v. Gore affirmed the Florida State Legislature's "plenary" power 
to select the electors itself. "The individual citizen has no federal constitutional right to vote for 
electors for the President of the United States unless and until the state legislature chooses a 
statewide election as the means to implement its power to appoint members of the electoral 
college. U. S. Const., Art. II, § 1. This is the source for the statement in McPherson v. Blacker, 146 
U. S. 1, 35 (1892), that the state legislature's power to select the manner for appointing electors is 
plenary; it may, if it so chooses, select the electors itself, which indeed was the manner used by 
state legislatures in several States for many years after the framing of our Constitution ." "The 
State, of course, after granting the franchise in the special context of Article II, can take back the 
power to appoint electors. See id., at 35 ('[T]here is no doubt of the right of the legislature to 
resume the power at any time, for it can neither be taken away nor abdicated')." ( Supreme Court) 
In July of 2020 in Chiafalo v. Washington the Supreme Court cited McPherson v. Blacker and 
reiterated this power calling it "the broadest power of determination." "Article II, §1 's 
appointments power gives the States far reaching authority over presidential electors, absent some 
other constitutional constraint. As noted earlier, each State may appoint electors 'in such Manner 
as the Legislature thereof may direct.' Art. II, §1, cl. 2; see supra, at 2. This Court has described 
that clause as 'conveying the broadest power of determination' over who becomes an elector. 
McPherson v. Blacker, 146 U. S. 1, 27 (1892).5 And the power to appoint an elector (in any 
manner) includes power to condition his appointment-that is, to say what the elector must do for 
the appointment to take effect." ( Supreme Court) 
During the early days of the Republic, state legislatures routinely chose their own electors 
for President. "In the country's early years, some legislatures did not trouble themselves to 
involve their citizens in choosing the president. When George Washington was first elected in 
1788, the legislatures of Connecticut, Delaware, Georgia, New Jersey and South Carolina 
appointed electors directly without a popular vote. The New York state legislature did not even 
choose electors because lawmakers couldn't resolve the split between its two chambers, which 
were controlled by different parties. The first several presidential elections followed a mixed 
pattern, with some states using popular elections to direct the choice of electors, while others left 
that choice solely to their legislatures.'' ( US News & World Report) 
VMH-00003544 