1 
2 
3 
4 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE 
5 JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL, 
6 U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
7 WASHINGTON, D.C. 
8 
9 
10 
11 INTERVIEW OF: THOMAS ANTHONY SPECIALE, II 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 Thursday, February 24, 2022 
Washington, D.C. 
The interview in the above matter was held via Webex, commencing at 2:03 p.m. 1  2 
1 
2 Appearances: 
3 
4 
5 For the SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE 
6 THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL: 
7 
8 INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
9 STAFF ASSOCIATE 
10 
11 CHIEF INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
12 CHIEF CLERK 
13 PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBER 
14 INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
15 INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
16 , INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL  1 
2 
3 
4 We will go on the record at 2:03 p.m. And good morning. 
Mr. Speciale. Good morning. 
- Sorry. This is the afternoon. See, the brain is already fogged up. 
5 I have a cold. I haven't had a cold in 2 years. 
6 So, anyway, this is a transcribed interview of Mr. Thomas Speciale conducted by 
7 the House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States 
8 Capitol pursuant to House Resolution 503. 
9 At this time, I'd ask the witness to please state your full name and spell your last 
10 name for the record. 
11 Mr. Speciale. My name's Thomas Speciale, Thomas Anthony Speciale, the 
12 second. And my last name is spelled S-p-e-c-i-a-1-e. 
Thank you very much. 3 
13 
14 So this, as we discussed, will be a staff-led deposition. Members, of course, may 
15 join. I don't see anyone now, but they may join later. So in the room today are myself, 
16 , investigative counsel, and investigative counsel. 
17 And we discussed this before we started, but just for the record, can you confirm 
18 that you are not recording this transcribed interview? 
19 
20 
21 Mr. Speciale. I am not recording. 
Thank you very much. 
Mr. Speciale, you are voluntarily here for this transcribed interview. I would like 
22 to note for the record that you have chosen to appear without counsel. 
23 There is an official reporter transcribing the record of this interview. Please wait 
24 until each question is completed before you begin your response and we will try to wait 
25 until your response is complete before we ask our next question. The stenographer  4 
1 cannot record nonverbal responses, such as shaking your head. So it is important that 
2 you answer each question with an audible, verbal response. 
3 And we ask that you provide complete answers based on your best recollection. 
4 If the question is not clear, you know, that's very possible, please ask for clarification. If 
5 you do not know the answer, please simply say so. 
6 I also want to remind you that it is unlawful to deliberately provide false 
7 information to Congress for this interview. Providing false information could result in 
8 criminal penalties for false statements. 
9 Do you understand? 
Mr. Speciale. I do. 10 
11 Thank you. And, logistically, just let us know if you need any breaks. 
12 You know-and I might because of the remote setting, might end up speaking over 
13 each other, so if you can't hear a question or you don't understand a question, just let us 
14 know and we will repeat it. 
15 And then the last thing, because you and I discussed this with over email and 
16 you and I discussed this over the phone, is that you mentioned you believe you have 
17 classified information of interest to the select committee. And I just want to make it 
18 clear, as you are well aware, that this is not a classified setting. 
19 Mr. Speciale. Uh-huh. 
20 Therefore, I will not ask you about that classified information 
21 will not ask you about that classified information, and please do not discuss it. 
22 So we're strictly here to discuss your presence as a civilian, you know, in the days 
23 leading up to January 6th, on January 6th. We want to hear about your viewpoint from 
24 that perspective. But if at any point we ask you a question that you believe touches on 
25 that classified information and you cannot discuss, just let us know, and then answer the  1 question as best you can from your civilian perspective. 
2 I believe we're on the same page about this, but I just wanted to put it on the 
3 record --
4 
5 Mr. Speciale. We are. 
- --so we could get it out of the way. And I take it that that makes 
6 sense to you? 
7 
8 
9 Mr. Speciale. Yes, it does. 
Fantastic. Thank you so much. 
EXAMINATION BY-5 
10 
11 Q So we'll get started with a little basic biographical information for the record, 
12 and then move on to talking about, you know, the days leading up to January 5th and 6th 
13 and all that good stuff. 
14 So, how old are you, Mr. Speciale? 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 A I'm getting ready to turn 53. 
Q Congratulations on getting ready. 
A Yeah, I am. 
Q And where do you live now? 
A I'm in Woodbridge, Virginia. 
Q Woodbridge, Virginia. Okay. I haven't been there yet, but I hear nice 
21 things about the area, so --
22 
23 
24 
25 A That's because you've been stuck in D.C. for the last 2 years. 
Q I only moved there pretty recently, so not 2 years. 
A I know. 
Q I was born in D.C., recent transplant.  A 
Q Oh, okay. All right. 
Yeah, yeah. I'm going to ask you a little bit about your career. 
So at any point, were you law enforcement or in the military? 
Yes. Before I start, though, I want to be really -­
Sure. 6 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 A 
Q 
A --I got to be really clear on kind of two things. First of all, I am here strictly 
7 as an American citizen, not representing the Department of Defense in any way or the 
8 DNI or --
9 
10 Q 
A Absolutely. 
--any contract company. I am in no way a --in any kind of an official 
11 government capacity in any way and nor can I speak for them. 
12 In addition to that, I'm very curious what the legality is regarding --regarding my 
13 inability to record or document the conversation just for my own records. Can you 
14 provide like a legal reference of some kind that prohibits me from doing that, or is that 
15 just a preference on you guys' part? 
16 Q I think --well, we keep these confidential, these transcribed interviews 
17 confidential. So as far as I understand in terms of legal requirement, I'm not sure if Sean 
18 can jump in here a little bit about it, but --
19 A I'm sorry. I understand the confidentiality as it pertains to you guys 
20 directly, but my statements and what I'm saying, I've said over and over again multiple 
21 times in other places, so none of this will be new, I don't think, that you shouldn't already 
22 been able to find out. 
23 Go ahead. 
24 We'll just say, for the record, this is a voluntary process, and 
25 obviously we have certain, you know, conditions on our conversation. And so if those  7 
1 aren't acceptable to you, then, you know, you're free to not partake in this interview. 
2 But those are the conditions we're setting, so --
3 
4 
5 Mr. Speciale. Okay. 
- It's not like a legal --
Mr. Speciale. I will protect --I will absolutely protect everybody's confidentiality 
6 for --you know, on my end, but my hope is that this becomes part of the public 
7 congressional record at some point. 
9 
10 
11 
12 Mr. Speciale. Okay. 
- So we cannot speak to like the future use of it, but as a transcribed 
interview, it is part of the record itself. 
Mr. Speciale. Okay. Okay. Okay. And so I guess to your question, my 
13 relationship with law enforcement and the military, correct? 
14 BY 
15 Q Yeah. And I very much appreciate your answer about you being here as a 
16 civilian. That is exactly how we would like to talk to you. And we do not expect you to 
17 speak for any organization or any contractor, anything like that. 
18 A Right. I am also --at the time of this event, I was the national spokesman 
19 for Vets for Trump, which has re branded since then as Veterans For America First, which 
20 is a veterans advocacy organization. We deal with homelessness, mental health, things 
21 like that for veterans, and politically active as well, endorsing candidates that we believe 
22 are veteran --that are veteran-supportive candidates. 
23 Since that time, in just the last month or so, I became the president of Vets for 
24 Trump --I'm sorry --Vets for America First, I'm sorry. And so my formal relationship 
25 with them only started a month or so ago, 6 weeks ago, let's say, where --other than  1 being a national spokesman, which I wasn't part of the board or anything like that up 
2 until --I got to shut off my notifications here. Sorry. 
3 
4 
5 First. 
6 
7 Q 
A 
Q 
A That's okay. 
--up until recently where now I sit on the board for Veterans For America 
Okay. 
So just so, you know, we --because the origin of this conversation was your 
8 reaching out to the organization regarding Joshua Macias, and so that's why I put myself 8 
9 forward as somebody that might be able to answer some of these questions. You know, 
10 clearly for legal reasons, you know, he doesn't feel comfortable talking to anybody right 
11 now because of some of the scrutiny he's under for unnecessary reasons, but --
12 So that's why I went and I spoke with other members of Veterans For America 
13 First to basically --or hopefully be able to address some of your questions, and then, of 
14 course, my background and my personal knowledgeability about everything that 
15 happened in that event, so --
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 Q Right. I appreciate that. 
So getting back to your personal background a little bit just for the record. 
A 
Q 
A Okay. 
Were you law enforcement or in the military at some point? 
Yeah. I am actually --I am still in --I've been in the Reserves and on Active 
21 Duty --or on Active Duty in the U.S. Army since 1987. So I'm a Cold War soldier, before 
22 the end of the Cold War. I know that goes back in time for you Maybe not so 
23 much for I think he's a little bit older than you. But that was a very different 
24 time then in '87. So I joined the Army Reserves in '87, and I've been in the military, 
25 except for a small break while I attended college, since.  1 And in addition to that, on the law enforcement side, my first military 
2 occupational specialty in the military was military police. So I have a little bit of law 
3 enforcement experience and I have an extensive family network that are all involved in 
4 law enforcement. 
5 Q Fantastic. And thank you for your service. 
6 So I heard the military police. Any other roles or positions? 
7 
8 
9 A 
Q 
A Many, many, many. 
Many, many. 
Military police, then I became a field artillery forward observer, then I was a 
10 psychological operation specialist. Then after that, I became an infantryman. After 
11 that, I became a --basically, in the enlisted side, I was an interrogator and then deployed 
12 with special forces through Afghanistan as an enlisted interrogator, HUMINT collection, 
13 human intelligence collector. And then I became a warrant officer in the Reserves, and 
14 I've been a warrant officer in the Reserves since 2009. 9 
15 And I am now a CW3 HUMINT technician in the Army Reserves, and I have been to 
16 every HUMINT school that the U.S. military offers. I am considered capable of running 
17 all the way up to clandestine sources in former countries during a time of war. 
18 In addition to that, I have also --because it is military related, I have served as a 
19 counterterrorism analyst and a senior intelligence officer at the Defense Intelligence 
20 Agency. And since --that started also around 2009. And then I've also worked at the 
21 DNI in direct support of military operations as a collections strategist. That's an 
22 intelligence collection strategist, and I've also worked as a tasking manager. So, 
23 basically, divvying out tasking responsibilities to the various intelligence entities of the 
24 Director of National Intelligence office. 
25 Q That is a --that is a hefty resume.  10 
1 A Yeah. I --I --jokingly, I call myself an intelligence hit man. I like to go in 
2 and solve problems and then move on to the next problem. So I have worked extensive 
3 pol-military intelligence, I've done military war planning, I've done extensive 
4 counterterrorism and counterterrorism planning. I've been --I've worked very closely 
5 with counterintelligence agents. I'm not a counterintelligence agent, but as a senior 
6 warrant officer in the HUMINT community, I have to be very knowledgeable about 
7 counterintelligence operations because the enemy has counterintelligence that they run 
8 against us. So I'm very knowledgeable about foreign counterintelligence. 
9 
10 Q Great. And then that leads directly into my next question, but before I do, 
I'd like to, just for the record, that Investigative Counsel has joined, just 
11 to note that for the record. 
12 So as in your work for the DNI, have you worked for any other agencies in the 
13 Federal Government outside of your military? 
14 A I want to be clear that in my --other than serving on Active Duty at DIA, at 
15 the Defense Intelligence Agency, all the other times I was serving as a civilian contractor, 
16 and so not --I've never been like a Federal Government employee. 
17 
18 
19 Q 
A 
Q Right. 
It's always just been military or civilian contractor, government contractor. 
Fair enough. So as a contract --have you worked as a contractor for other 
20 agencies besides the DN --DNI? 
21 
22 
23 A 
Q 
A DI --well, DIA -­
The DIA? 
Yeah. The Defense Combating Terrorism Center, the National 
24 Counterterrorism Center, and at the Director of National Intelligence. So those are like 
25 the four main organizations that I've supported either in uniform or as a civilian  1 contractor. 
2 
3 Q 
A Great. So did you ever work for Michael Flynn in any of those --
1 did. I worked --well, I mean, I didn't work directly for him, but I was at 
4 DIA during his tenure as the Director of DIA, but had no direct, you know, relationship 11 
5 with him officially even as a contractor, and he was just the director at the time. But I'm 
6 very, you know --I mean, I'm very knowledgeable about everything that happened at DIA 
7 organizationally because I was a victim of it. So --so in that case, yes. 
8 Q Okay. And your role as a --did you have a specific title as contractor or was 
9 it --
10 A I've been a number of them, but a counterintelligence HUMINT planner, I 
11 have been a collection strategist, a senior collection strategist, a targeter. I've worked in 
12 the CIO office temporarily, chief information office for the DNI. I was a tasking manager. 
13 In uniform, I was a senior intelligence officer or a senior operations officer. 
14 Intelligence officers do analysis, operations officers run clandestine HUMINT operations. 
15 
16 Q 
A Got it. So a variety of roles over your time --
Yeah. I have pretty much served in almost every role except 
17 administratively, especially with regard to HUMINT and analysis. 
18 Q And forgive me if I missed this, do you still hold any contractor role with the 
19 government? 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q I'm still a government contractor. 
Okay. Is that with the CT --the national terrorism --
No. It's totally different. It's totally, totally different now. 
Is that something you can share? 
Simply because it's not related, I don't -­
Okay.  12 
1 A It's not really related in any way to this, so I don't see any --it doesn't really 
2 have any value to the conversation. 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q It's not a counterterrorism --
No. 
--contractor? 
No, no, no, no, no. 
That's fine. And we already started talking a little bit about Vets for Trump. 
8 So when did you start --
9 A Before --I know you've got some very specific questions, but I want to blow 
10 through a couple of things just so that I can understand my audience a little bit better, 
11 because I don't want to waste you guys' time with things that you either don't know or I 
12 would have to spend hours and hours trying to explain. 
13 So --and I also went and I looked at your --sort of your mission statement, your 
14 organizational statement. Because I want to be really clear why I'm doing this, because I 
15 know that it's very difficult for you --in fact, this is against like kind of --friends of mine 
16 that are legal counsel, you know, they're like, you know, don't talk to them, don't talk to 
17 them. 
18 I'm like, I've been part of the team longer than these guys have been working this 
19 problem, right? If you don't talk to somebody like me, you can't really get the 
20 information, because everybody is so political about it. I'm not political about it. For 
21 me, it's all about analysis. 
22 And I looked at your stuff. I have serious concerns with the whole concept of it 
23 being an insurrection. For legal reasons, I don't believe it was an insurrection; I believe 
24 it was something else, maybe even probably more problematic than an insurrection. 
25 There was really only one death associated with this. Okay? There were  13 
1 people who died, but they were not directly associated to this, and we all know who that 
2 is. And I believe as well that the physical harm that happened, you know, according to 
3 you guys' things, 140 members of law enforcement, the terror, the trauma, the staff, the 
4 institutional employees, the press, the Members, I absolutely condemn all of that. 
5 We have always condemned any of that violence, and it actually --it --personally, 
6 it breaks my heart that these law enforcement people found themselves between 
7 protecting the Capitol and, you know, a horde of angry Americans, right? It's 
8 heart-wrenching to me to see the condition that our country's in right now. 
9 I know --if I get this out now, then a lot of other things I say will be more clear, 
10 okay? 
11 You know --okay. So Christopher Wray, even in your own stuff, has admitted, 
12 the Director of FBI has admitted that the underlying drivers of domestic violent 
13 extremism are perceptions of government law or enforcement overreach. Okay? 
14 Perceptions of government or law enforcement overreach. But I don't think that many 
15 of these things are just perceptions. 
16 There are now legal cases that have come out and determined that there were 
17 inappropriate uses of authority with regard to the counterintelligence investigations into 
18 Trump and Carter Page and all these things. Those now things have been proven to be 
19 true, which were in the past just perceptions or beliefs. 
20 Q Mr. Speciale, let me just cut you off there. These are --these topics, I think 
21 you're going to be able to get to them at the end. So let me --let me go through some 
22 of this background stuff and --
23 
24 A 
Q Okay. 
--I do appreciate --I do very much appreciate your perspective on this, but I 
25 think it actually --we'll certainly give you an opportunity to put it all on the record at the  14 
1 end, if you want to go through it all, but I think you're going to be able to get some of this 
2 out anyway through the questions. 
3 
4 A 
Q Okay. 
So as they come, that's why we're here. We want to hear your perspective 
5 as specifically related to the stuff on January 6th. 
6 A Okay. 
7 Q So I'm sorry to cut you off --
8 A I guess my point to you,_ is that this stuff all started long before 
9 January 5th and 6th. And if we don't have a fulsome conversation, we're wasting our 
10 time. We're just mice in a wheel spinning our wheels. We've got to talk about the real 
11 causes, which is your mandate. Your mandate is causes, and I hope you get to causes. 
12 
13 But go ahead. I'm sorry. Go ahead. 
Q Yes. That is part of our larger mandate. Today, our conversation, though, 
14 we're here to hear about your first-hand perspective about what happened on the day. 
15 And as --like I said, as I ask those questions, part of your first-time perspective might be 
16 shaped by those things that happened before. 
17 So --as, you know, feel free to talk about them as I ask the question. I just want 
18 to make sure we focus in on, you know, what happened in those days leading up and 
19 what happened on that day, so we can hear exactly your viewpoint of it. 
20 
21 A 
Q Okay. 
And like I said, totally fair, because as --you're correct, we're all --things 
22 don't happen in a vacuum. So as I ask you a question, don't feel the need to hold back, 
23 okay? 
24 
25 A 
Q Okay. 
But I appreciate it. Thank you.  15 
1 
2 So getting back to Vets for Trump, when did you become the national spokesman? 
A Honestly, I don't know exactly, but I think it was middle of last year, middle 
3 of 2021. 
4 
5 
6 
7 Q 
A 
Q 
A Middle of 2021. So you were not serving in that role in 2020? 
Well, was I? Let me think. 
I have also completely lost track chime. 
No, I'm sorry. It would have been --it was after the 2020 primary --yeah. 
8 I'm sorry. It was after the 2020 primary that I became a national spokesman for Vets for 
9 Trump. So it would have been middle of 2020. I'm sorry. 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 Q Middle of 2020. So --
A Middle of 2020. 
Q --sometime summer or early fall or whatever? 
A Right. It was after the primary. 
Q Yeah. 
A The organization asked me to serve as the national spokesman, which 
16 basically meant I just talked about Vets for Trump. 
17 
18 Q 
A I was going to ask you, so how did you get --who asked you specifically? 
I --honestly, I don't remember. I'm sure that it was the board, members of 
19 the board. I don't know specifically who it was. 
20 Q You don't remember specifically? 
21 A It could have been Josh or it could have been Vlad Lemets, another one of 
22 the members of the board. Those are the guys that I had the most contact with at the 
23 time. 
24 
25 Q Were you a member of Vets for Trump then? 
A No. They endorsed my Senate race. That's how I became associated with  1 them. 
Understood. So did you know Josh before? 
No. 
You did not know him before, okay -­
No. 
--Vets for Trump? 
No. 16 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q Would you say you grew close to Josh over as your time with Vets for Trump 
9 started? 
10 A I mean, yes. I would say, you know, we're very like-minded. I mean, I 
11 think --you know, we're both people of faith, we're both people who love the country 
12 and love the Constitution. He's a veteran. You know, I mean, I know him like I know 
13 anybody else that I would spend the last 2 years talking with, you know, periodically on 
14 the telephone or, you know, attending various events or whatever, but --
15 
16 Q 
A Yeah. 
But, you know, I would say that we are very good friends based on just the 
17 last 2 years that we've known each other. 
18 Q Right. So there was no relationship before. I'm getting this sort of 
19 colleague sense --
20 
21 
22 
23 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
24 would you --
25 A No. 
--a good colleague, someone who --
We had a very good --yeah, I would say very good colleague. Yeah. 
Great. And was Josh serving in any role --do you mind if I call him Josh or 
You can call him Josh. That's fine.  17 
1 Q Okay. Was Josh serving any official role in Vets for Trump around the 2020 
2 election? You said he was on the board. 
3 A I don't --I don't know what his --I think he might have been the --honestly, I 
4 don't know. I don't want to say what it was. He was the principal spokesman for Vets 
5 for Trump at the time. Whether or not that was his official position or not, he was like 
6 the primary spokesman. He's like a force of nature. I mean, he works like a madman. 
7 He was working like a madman to help, you know, President Trump. 
8 So it's --you know, he's very, very passionate, he's full of energy, he loves the 
9 country. And, you know, I would say --you know, I'd say we're good colleagues. 
10 Q Yeah. So, obviously, he was very involved; you just can't remember if he 
11 had a specific title? 
12 
13 
14 
15 joined. A 
Q Honest, I don't know. 
That's very fair. Thank you very much. 
I also want to note for the record that Investigative Counsel 
Hello has 
16 
17 A 
Q Okay. So following the 2020 Presidential election, how did you feel about 
18 it? 
19 
20 
21 
22 A 
Q 
A The 2020 Presidential election? 
Yeah. In short. I've heard a lot --you know, give me the 5 second -­
Boy, you guys just go right for the jugular. How do you feel about that? 
Okay. I'm going to be really clear. I am not an election expert guy. I am 
23 not --I'm totally like the exact opposite of a conspiracy person. I'm an intelligence 
24 analyst. I look at the data. I look at the facts of the situation, right? 
25 And, you know, passions are high. I honestly can't even remember everything I  18 
1 said at the time, okay? I think --you know, at the time, people that were on the Trump 
2 side of things --and I've been --you know, I'm not one of these people who just jumped 
3 on the bandwagon to be politically active, - I've been involved, you know, in 
4 politics as a voter since '87, so since I was a kid. 
5 And so --but there's a lot of people that had gotten on the bandwagon, you know, 
6 in the Trump movement in the Make America Again movement that were not really 
7 politically active but just saw a lot of things that were happening in our country that they 
8 wanted to fight against, right? And so I'm not one of those. I've been involved for a 
9 long time. In fact, I didn't even vote for President Trump first time around. In 2016, I 
10 didn't vote for him. I didn't think he had a chance in hell of winning, but I was really glad 
11 he did. 
12 So my personal opinion is, you know, I guess I was disappointed. I wouldn't say I 
13 was angry. You know, to a great extent with regard to the election, I do believe and I 
14 have said that I think that there were people who took advantage of the COVID crisis for 
15 political reasons. You know, never let a good crisis go to waste. And I do believe that 
16 constitutionally those things are going to bear out and it's going to be --you know, I 
17 mean, several States have already come down and said and they are already changing 
18 things with regard to mail-in ballots and ballot harvesting and all these things that can be 
19 potentially distorting to the election. 
20 And I want everybody to vote, guys. I want everybody to vote. I want 
21 everybody to --in fact, that's one of the reasons I started Chasing Freedom -Virginia is 
22 because I feel like people can't get good information on candidates. 
23 Q So fair to say then that you had concerns about changes to election laws that 
24 happened prior --
25 A That's the thing. They weren't changes to election laws. Most of these  19 
1 changes did not go through State legislatures. Most of them were executive orders by 
2 Governors. That --
3 Q Outside of election regulations --
4 A There's definitely --that's always been my concern is that the crisis was 
5 weaponized by people to manipulate the outcome of the election. I'm not a, you 
6 know --I know that there's stuff out on the internet that says, you know, that I said 
7 COVID was a hoax or whatever. 
8 I have said from the very beginning COVID was a real thing, I didn't think that they 
9 were telling us everything about what they knew about it, and that's all been proven out 
10 to be true that there was more things going on regarding COVID than we knew about. 
11 But I've never said, you know, don't, you know, get the vaccine if you don't want to. 
12 My concern with the whole COVID situation, as it applies to the election, was that 
13 it was used to force on the American people changes in how the election was going to be 
14 handled mostly because they just hated Donald Trump. It wasn't because they thought 
15 that those were the right things to do. It was because they knew that they could use 
16 those circumstances to their political benefit. And as we're seeing right now, I think 
17 there's a case in Pennsylvania that just came out and they said that the mail-in ballots 
18 were basically unconstitutional. 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A 
Q 
A Before --let me --
So I have my concerns -­
Yeah. 
I had my concerns --
[Crosstalk. Reporter interrupts.] 
Yes? 
[Reporter responds.]  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 Sorry 
Mr. Speciale. That's okay. That's okay. No problem at all. 
Sorry, That's my fault --
Mr. Speciale. 
- --Mr. Speciale. 
Mr. Speciale. No, it was really my fault. 
Q So because of your concerns, did you get involved in any organization like 
10 Stop the Steal? Actually --
11 A No. I was not officially in any capacity at all involved with Stop the Steal. 
12 I was --in the December --on the December rally --I can't remember what it was called 
13 now. 
Oh, we'll get there in a second. 20 
14 
15 Q 
A But I'm just saying, on the December rally was the only time I really had any 
16 kind of connection with them, and I was on the stage during that rally. Everything else I 
17 really did was associated with either Vets for Trump or Virginia Women for Trump, which 
18 was the organization that was the Virginia organization that I was associated with, but 
19 even then, not in any kind of an official way, just like they asked me to speak. But I had 
20 no official relationship with them. 
21 Q Okay. We'll get to --we'll get to those in a second. 
22 In terms of before the December 12th rally, were you aware about Josh's arrest on 
23 November 5th in Philadelphia? 
24 
25 A 
Q I was and not in any great detail at the time. 
All right. Do you know who he was with?  21 
1 A I know his name is Tony. I've met Tony a few times, but I don't know him 
2 and I don't know --like, I don't know anything about Tony. I just know that he's 
3 been --he was with Josh a couple times. That's all I know. 
4 Q So you don't --so you don't know if Tony has a leadership position in Vets for 
5 Trump or --
6 A No, I don't think he has any kind of leadership. He hasn't since I've been 
7 associated with it. 
8 
9 Q 
A Okay. Do you know why Josh and Tony went to Philadelphia? 
I know that he was going --you know, Josh was more active, I think, with 
10 regard to the election security stuff than I ever was, and I think that he went basically 
11 because he has concerns about, you know, how the ballots were being handled. But 
12 that's the extent, and that's a guess. I really don't know why he went except for what I 
13 think he went for, you know. 
14 
15 Q 
A Yeah. 
I do know --I do know that it's like ludicrous to think that Josh would have 
16 gone up there with any kind of violence in mind, because I've known Josh for 2 years or a 
17 year and a half or so at that point, and he's just not that kind of guy, you know. That's 
18 just kind of like cuckoo for Cocoa Puffs. Put that in the transcripts, cuckoo for Cocoa 
19 Puffs. That's crazy talk. 
20 Josh is a --he's a patriot, but he's --you know, he doesn't have any mental issues. 
21 He's not --he's not in any way violent or anything like that. So it's just crazy that that 
22 would even be insinuated. 
23 Q So fair to say that Vets for Trump as an organization did not have anything to 
24 do with Josh's trip to Philadelphia? 
25 A Not that I'm aware. I don't --I don't know. I wasn't involved with like the  22 
1 board's decisions and things like that at that point, but I don't --I'm not aware of any 
2 direct, you know --
3 Q Yeah. No, I get it. And did you --as national spokesman at that time, did 
4 you have to do anything in response to Josh's trip? 
5 
6 
7 A 
Q 
A Not --you mean even after? 
Yeah. Like in response --
Before or after? I don't believe --I --I have not at any time made a public 
8 statement about the circumstances revolving around Josh's arrest or what he was doing. 
9 You know, he's done enough of that himself and, you know, I don't have knowledgeability 
10 to do it. I'm not the type of person that just because somebody asks me to, you know, I 
11 go and make an endorsement for something. Because, you know, I'm a believer in 
12 the --I'm a believer in the rule of law. 
13 I don't --I think that, you know, if he broke the law, then you have to go through 
14 the legal process, right? I mean, but I don't know that he broke the law. I do believe 
15 that to a great extent, based on what I know after the fact, that the Philadelphia district 
16 attorney --I mean, Josh apparently was interviewed by the FBI. They let him go. He'd 
17 been interviewed by the --and this is all secondhand. I mean, this is what I --
18 Q Let me cut you off there. If you haven't made any sort of public statement 
19 about it in your role for Vets for Trump, that's enough. 
20 A Yeah. I haven't made any public statements about it, but I do believe that, 
21 you know, politically, it's --again, don't ever let a good crisis go to waste, and this was a 
22 way for some people who didn't necessarily like the message that Josh stood for to 
23 potentially silence him. 
24 
25 Q I appreciate your view on that. 
Okay. So you mentioned you were at the December 12th rally in Washington,  1 D.C. 
2 
3 
4 A 
Q 
A I was. 
Do you remember --do you remember why you attended? 
I went on the 12th. I definitely was with Virginia Women for Trump. 
5 helped the woman who ran it. God rest her soul, she passed away, Alice Butler-Short. 
6 You know, she originally had supported my opponent in the primary race but came 
7 around to liking me, and we became very good friends. She was a wonderful woman. 
8 And she had organized the Virginia Women for Trump event at the Supreme Court. 23 
9 And mostly Virginia Women for Trump were for Trump, but mostly they were just 
10 a bunch of women of faith that had organized. And she asked me to come and speak at 
11 the Virginia Women for Trump event, and she had connections to the main --Jericho 
12 March was the name of the one in December. She had connections and was able to get 
13 me on the stage at the Jericho March is the way I remember it. Mostly, it was Alice 
14 Butler-Short that was able to grease the wheels to get me to be on the stage. 
15 
16 
17 Q 
A 
Q Well, I'm sorry for your loss. 
Yeah. She was a --she was a great lady. 
And one thing I have to just, I would like to note that 
18 investigative counsel, has joined as well, for the record. 
19 
20 Going back to your speech. Do you remember what you talked about? 
A I don't remember what I talked about on the --I do remember a little bit 
21 about the speech I made in front of the Supreme Court. 
22 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A 
Q 
A If that's January 5th, we'll get to that. 
No, no, no. We're talking about December. 
Yeah. 
Mostly, I think I talked about --I don't remember. I remember talking  24 
1 about when I had started with Chasing Freedom -Virginia. I clearly talked about, you 
2 know, Veterans for Trump at the time. You know, I'm sure my --you know, when you 
3 give a speech, it's a lot --it's a lot more hyperbolic than maybe sometimes you intend. 
4 But, you know, I imagine at the time, you know, probably not realizing the level of 
5 people's passions over time, but I don't remember anything specific that I said at the 
6 Supreme Court. 
7 I do know that on the Jericho March stage, the majority of what I talked about 
8 was --you know, I don't --I'm not a person who believes in the deep state. Okay. 
9 hate even the concept of it, but it's a really, really, really boiled down simplified way to 
10 help people understand the bureaucracies of the U.S. Government and the amount of 
11 influence that the bureaucracies have over the --over the --over the --over the 
12 politicians, right? And so it's just a simple way of saying, you know, the bureaucracies. 
13 And I do know that on that Jericho March stage I talked about the --I believe the 
14 unlawful counterintelligence investigation into the Trump --into the Trump campaign, the 
15 unlawful FBI activities regarding Michael Flynn. And, you know, ultimately, I guess, the 
16 essence probably of that speech would be that, you know, I think that they were working 
17 against him because he isn't --you know, Trump didn't play well with others. 
18 He was trying to do things his way and he was fighting against a bureaucracy and 
19 the political elites on both sides, by the way --both sides, not just the Democrats, it's the 
20 Republican side too --who have become so politically enmeshed and he was an outsider. 
21 And so they --they conspired --they basically conspired against Trump and they 
22 conspired against Flynn, and those things have been proven to be true. 
23 In fact, you know, if you have not already read, which I have, the DOJ 
24 applica---the review of four FISA applications and other aspects of the FBl's Crossfire 
25 Hurricane investigation, if you have not read this in detail, you'll know exactly what I'm  25 
1 talking about. 
2 This is the transparency that the government has been preventing the American 
3 people from getting that leads to all the conspiracy theories and everything. Finally, this 
4 is out, but it took, you know, 2 years for this to come out. 
5 So, you know, those --
6 Q Well, let me --let me stop you there, Mr. Speciale. 
7 So fair to say, you didn't talk --did you talk about election fraud or January 6th at 
8 the December 12th rally? 
9 A Honestly, I may --I may have, you know, in --you know, like I was saying 
10 hyperbolically, but I have tried --I've tried to avoid getting into the election stuff other 
11 than to say that I think some of the States held unconstitutional elections because it 
12 didn't go through the State legislatures; they were done by executive orders by 
13 Governors. 
14 That's always been my thing. So I can't imagine I didn't --I wasn't --but, you 
15 know, I --honestly, I haven't reviewed that speech in a while, so I don't know. I know 
16 that most of my speech was about conspiring against the President with a bogus 
17 counterintelligence investigation into Carter Page and his campaign and also the unlawful 
18 activities of the FBI with regard to --with regard to Michael Flynn. 
19 Q Thank you. 
20 
21 A 
Q But I don't remember the details of the speech. 
That's okay. It would be impossible to remember the transcript of a speech 
22 that you give. 
23 So were you there --
24 A Oh, you should know I don't write any of my speeches before I give 
25 them, just so you know. So I don't even have it written down anywhere.  26 
1 Q That's okay. So were you there in your personal capacity or as spokesman 
2 for Vets for Trump or sort of both? 
3 A I was --well, I was there, clearly, I think on the --I was there in my personal 
4 capacity as both the chairman for Chasing Freedom -Virginia and as the, at the time, 
5 national spokesman for Vets for Trump. 
6 
7 Q 
A Great. Was Michael Flynn also there on December 12th? 
He was. Was that the day? That was the day, actually, that his security 
8 people did not show up at the Supreme Court. The Flynn family were friends in some 
9 way with Alice Butler-Short, and she had gotten him to come and speak at the Supreme 
10 Court that day. But his security detail, his vehicles did not show up. And when they 
11 didn't show up, we kind of --he had to walk like --they thought he had to walk all the way 
12 to the Jericho stage, I think, because his vehicles didn't show up. 
13 And, you know, I walked --basically, I walked kind of alongside him trying to keep 
14 reporters and stuff away, and that was not at his request, that wasn't at anybody's 
15 request. That was on my own initiative. That was completely on my own initiative just 
16 as a person that I felt could, you know, could do that and help him get there. 
17 
18 Q 
A So you knew Mr. Flynn before? 
No. I've still never actually had a conversation with him of any kind. I've 
19 spoken to his brother a few times, but I haven't spoken to General Flynn at all. Never. 
20 Q Okay. And on December 12th then, was it just you or other Vets for Trump 
21 members there providing --I'm going to use the word "security," but as you said, it was 
22 more like walking? 
23 A It really wasn't --I mean, we're there just to kind of keep anybody from 
24 being a problem, but we never, of course, never needed to be. Unofficially, you know, 
25 you just walk around. I'm bald. Everybody thinks I'm a mean guy, you know what I  27 
1 mean? I'm totally not. I'm like a total kitty cat compared to --but I do --I'm pretty 
2 sure Josh was there, but I --honestly, I don't know. Yeah, I don't know if he was there. 
3 I'm almost sure he was, though. I don't --
4 Q But you don't remember like --
5 A It kind of shows --it kind of gives you an example of what I --you know, how 
6 well do I know Josh. You know, we might have a 15-minute conversation and it's not 
7 really substantive, you know what I mean? It's just shooting the shit, you know. 
8 Q Yeah, understood. But you don't remember or there wasn't a big group of 
9 Vets for Trump members who were walking alongside Mr. Flynn on December 12th? 
10 A No. There were --I had one friend of mine there, but he's not a member of 
11 Vets for Trump. He just happened to be there. He's not even a vet. And he kind of 
12 helped us walk Flynn to his vehicles. I don't remember anybody else other than just me 
13 and him. 
14 Q Okay. Do you remember any other --seeing any members of any other 
15 groups, like the Oath Keepers or Proud Boys there, maybe some Three Percenters? 
16 A I knew that there was some group there. I want to --I honestly --I don't 
17 know who any of these groups are. Like, I know the Oath Keeper guys because I see 
18 their patch. I know the Proud Boy guys because I know what Enrique looks like, you 
19 know, the leader of the Proud Boys. There were some people there that were kind of 
20 security, but they were set up by Alice --
21 
22 
23 Q 
A Okay. So you don't know --
--organized by Alice. I had no connection to them at all. I still don't. 
To this day, I have no connection --I want to be very clear --I have no connection 
24 at all to any Proud Boys, Oath Keepers, Three Percenters --yeah. I don't have --I have 
25 no personal relationship, official relationship, or even an unofficial relationship with any  28 
1 of those organizations. I have come into contact with them in several of these rallies 
2 and spoken to them, you know, periodically, mostly just about veteran issues, but no 
3 official relationship with any of them. 
4 Okay. - do you have a question? 
5 
6 Q Yeah. I just wanted to ask, did you know who was supposed to be 
7 providing security for General Flynn on that day? 
8 A There was a guy that was with him that was like, I'm assuming, some 
9 ex-special forces guy, but I never got his name, but he was with the general. He stayed 
10 with the general the whole time. There were other guys there, but I 
11 couldn't remem---I have no idea who any of them were. Like, they were just with him. 
12 And the reason we walked with him was because his vehicles were supposed to be 
13 there at a certain time --the way I'm remembering it is, the vehicles were supposed to be 
14 closer in a certain place and they were either caught in traffic or whatever, and so they 
15 had to walk. And so we were like, okay, well, we'll just go with you --because, you 
16 know, the people are already sticking microphones in the general's face and stuff like 
17 that, and that was kind of the objective, just to keep people --
18 Q For this individual or the couple individuals did appear to be special forces or 
19 look like that, did anybody ever mention to you that they were associated with any 
20 particular group? 
21 A Not that I recall. There's --I'm trying to remember a name --if you guys 
22 said it, I would be able to say that that's the group that they were, but I don't remember 
23 the name of it. It's like --
24 
25 Q 
A Was it 1st Amendment Praetorians? 
Yes. Yes. Yes. That's those guys. Yeah. And, again, I don't know  29 
1 who any of those people are. I have no idea. 
2 Great. Thank you. 
Mr. Speciale. I have no idea. 
BY 
Q Okay. Did you observe any violence at the December 12th rally? 3 
4 
5 
6 
7 A December 12th rally? No, not that I can recall. No violence whatsoever. 
Q Great. And then right after the rally was done, did you have any 
8 discussions with anybody about upcoming rallies or having another rally or any --
9 A I don't know. I've talked about so many rallies and stuff, 
10 honestly --I am sure I probably did, but I don't know. 
11 Q Yeah. 
12 
13 A Nothing --nothing was set in stone. I know --no. I have no idea. 
Q That's fine. It's a little while ago and there's a lot going on. But when did 
14 you become aware of the January 5th rally? 
15 
16 
17 A Oh, God. That's a good question. You mean --the January 6th rally. 
Q The 5th first and then the 6th, or both at the same time. 
A Well, the 5th was --the 5th was really --that was another 
18 Women Veterans --or Women --Virginia Women for Trump event on the 5th. 
19 The --the Vets for Trump guys were also associated with the Latinos for Trump rally that 
20 was going to be on the 6th across the street from the Supreme Court. 
21 And I think I got asked after the one at the Supreme Court. It was very informal 
22 that I, like, got to speak on the Latinos for Trump stage. That was just like --like, by 
23 accident, I think, that, you know, they had seen me earlier in the day and they're like, oh, 
24 you know --Josh probably said, you know, hey --because Josh knew those people. He's 
25 like, Tom's going to speak for Vets for Trump, right? Because I was --at that point, I was  1 the national spokesman, so --and I think he spoke too, but I don't remember anything 
2 about what he said. 
3 Q Okay. So we'll get back to the specifics about the speeches in a little bit. 
4 But fair to say you became aware of the January 5th rally through Virginia Women for 
5 Trump? 
6 
7 A 
Q Uh-huh. 
And then, you know, you're not exactly sure for the January 6th. Did you 
8 see President Trump's December 19th tweet calling for wild protests in D.C.? 
9 A It would be really hard for me to see a tweet because I don't tweet, 
10 I probably knew about it just from word of mouth or, you know, hey, everybody's going, 
11 this is going to be the day, but it was nothing formal or official in any way. 
12 Okay. 
13 Yeah. I just wanted to clarify. You know, I'm not a Twitter user 
14 either. Have you seen tweets despite not using Twitter? 
15 Mr. Speciale. I do, yes. I do, but I don't put --30 
16 And then so that --I'll just ask, just to be clear for the record, so then 
17 did you see President Trump's December 19th tweet identifying that it would be wild on 
18 January 6th? 
19 
20 
21 Mr. Speciale. I don't remember that at all. 
Okay. 
Mr. Speciale. Yeah. I don't remember it. It would be very surprising. If that 
22 was a tweet, it would be very surprising, because I don't --I just don't. Okay. I may 
23 have seen it. Hell, I could've even shared it, but I don't remember that at all, right, you 
24 know. And you can go look at my Twitter account, the most active I've been on there is 
25 the damn insurrection hunters that are like pretending like I was involved in something.  31 
1 But, yeah, I'm not --I'm not aware of the 19th thing in any kind of like formal way, 
2 like --I'm sure I knew it was happening, but I didn't really --it wasn't at Trump's directive 
3 or anything like that, as far as I knew. 
4 BY 
5 Q So you don't remember if any other groups gave you information about 
6 January 6th? 
7 A No. I mean, I --in fact, for me, most of the time they would just say, hey, 
8 we want you to speak, whoever it was, it was Alice or if it was Josh or whatever, we want 
9 you to speak for Vets for Trump or Chasing Freedom -Virginia. And I would go. And 
10 then they would say, okay. It's Tom's turn. You know what I mean? And then I 
11 would go. I wasn't, you know like deeply involved in any of the planning of any of these 
12 events. 
13 Q Okay. So when did --do you remember when you decided to go to 
14 Washington, D.C. --
15 
16 
17 A No idea. 
Q --for those rallies? 
A Yeah. No idea. I was going to go --I mean, clearly, I was going to go. 
18 The minute I found out about it, I was going to go. In fact, I took both those days off. 
19 took the 5th --I took the 5th and the 6th off from work because I knew it was going to be 
20 all day. I mean, there's no way I could've worked those days and still --because the 
21 speeches --you know, the speeches and stuff were during the --like, they were earlier in 
22 the day, you know, especially for the Virginia Women for Trump stuff. So that's why I 
23 took those days off. 
24 
25 Q So did you plan to travel to D.C. with anybody? 
A I --which day are we talking about?  32 
Q So, I guess, did you stay in D.C. or did you go -- 1 
2 A I did. I stayed in D.C. the night of the 5th. I couldn't tell you the name of 
3 the hotel. It wasn't one of the main hotels. It was like some --a buddy of mine got a 
4 hotel. He's like a chauffeur driver. He set up a hotel for me. He could get a discount, 
5 you know. But it wasn't --it wasn't paid for by anybody else. It wasn't organized by 
6 anyone else. There was no coordination with anybody else that I needed to be there. 
7 It was literally on my own initiative. I just didn't want to --I just didn't want to have to 
8 travel back and forth, basically. 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 Q It wasn't the Hilton Garden Inn, was it? 
A No. 
Q Okay. 
A No. No, no, no, no. 
Q So you didn't travel with anybody else --
A No. 
Q --to D.C.? 
A No. 
Q All right. Did you coordinate to go to meet up with anybody besides 
18 Women for Virginia for Trump? 
19 
20 
21 A 
Q 
A No. Nope. 
Nope, just on --
No. I mean, I knew there were other people there. I've got a lot --I've 
22 got a huge network of --especially for Chasing Freedom -Virginia. There were Chasing 
23 Freedom -Virginia people that also participated in this that we were all going to be going 
24 to the rally, but, you know, these are not the type of people --they're just like regular 
25 people who just love the country-type people. They're not --you know, they're not  33 
1 militia people and, you know, the kind of people that --like, I don't know personally 
2 any --do I know anybody? 
3 I don't know anybody personally that went into the Capitol on the 6th, right? 
4 That's how --in fact, several of our people left --when it started getting crazy, several 
5 people left. So those people are all like just regular people. They're not --
6 Q So you did have conversations with other people about going to Washington, 
7 D.C. --
8 A Sure. 
9 Q --and some of them were part of Chasing Freedom. Were any of them 
10 part of Vets for Trump? 
11 A I'm sure I talked to Josh, I'm sure I talked to Vlad. I'm sure that, you know, 
12 they were all going. But, again, you know, as the national spokesman, I was just going to 
13 speak for Vets for Trump. It wasn't, you know, anything beyond that. 
14 
15 Q Okay. Did you speak with Amanda Chase about going to January 6th? 
A Probably, but, again --are you going to be there? Yeah, I'm going to be 
16 there. I'm going to be there too. Okay. We'll be there together. You know what I 
17 mean? That was it. 
18 Q Alan Hostetter? 
19 A Oh, you know what? I didn't even know his name until like 2 days ago. 
20 probably had heard it. He probably told me his name. I mean, I don't even think I 
21 checked my phone to see if I even have his number. You know, I don't know him at all. 
22 He was at the Virginia Women for Trump stuff. I think he was associated with Alice, 
23 somehow with Alice Butler-Short. Like, I have read the news reports that he paid for 
24 people to travel and stuff like that, but I had no knowledge of that before then. 
25 Q Okay.  34 
1 A I don't --I don't know him. I spoke to him at the January 5th stage, I think, 
2 for the first time, him and his other --the other guy that's there that travels with him. 
3 But before that day, didn't know him. And after that day, I didn't know him either, until 
4 I was looking at the videos just yesterday or the day before and I saw his name and I knew 
5 that he had gotten in trouble. But I --even then, I still haven't even looked at the details 
6 of that case or, you know, what he got in trouble for. 
7 
8 Q So he's not --he never asked you to speak at the rally? 
A I don't think so, no. He didn't --no, he didn't contact me. I was --no. 
9 was asked by Alice and maybe Josh, but never by --never by that guy --Alan? Yeah. 
10 No. 
11 
12 
13 not. 
14 Q 
A Do you know if Josh had a relationship with Alan or --
1 don't. In fact, I have no knowledge at all of whether he knows them or 
Q Completely fair. Do you know if anybody --sorry. Did you talk to 
15 anybody from the Virginia Watchman Council about going to January 6th? 
16 A The Virginia Watchman Council? That sounds similar to some of the other 
17 groups that I know of, but what is the --who leads that group? 
18 Q I'm actually not entirely sure who leads that group. I was hoping you might 
19 have some information about it. 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 A 
Q 
A Let me see if I can find out. Let's see. 
Don't worry. If you can't recall, it's okay. 
Yeah. I don't --
Q We can follow up later about it. It's not worth you searching through now. 
A Yeah. I don't --honestly, I don't know the name. It kind of rings a bell like 
25 some faith leaders that I know out here that are part of the Virginia Watchman, I think,  35 
1 but I don't --that doesn't sound like what you're asking about. Is it a faith group? 
2 Q It might be. They might hold themselves out. We'll talk about it --we can 
3 talk about it later. It's okay. 
4 
5 A Okay. 
Q So I'm guessing since what you said about Oath Keepers, you didn't talk to 
6 Stewart Rhodes before January 6th? 
7 A Don't know --I mean, if I know Stewart Rhodes, I don't know who it is. And 
8 I'm terrible with names, just so you guys know. 
9 
10 
11 Q Okay. Any other Oath Keepers? I'm just going to go through this list. 
A No. 
Q You said you knew Enrique Tarrio by face. Did you talk to him before 
12 heading --
13 A I've spoken to him. We went --I didn't know he was going to be going until 
14 I got there. I went out and spoke in Maricopa County as the national spokesman for 
15 Vets for Trump. After the fact --it was like February, March, or something way after. 
16 And I had no idea he was going to be there on the trip. I paid for my own airfare down 
17 to Texas. There was some jet, we got on the jet, we went to Maricopa County, they flew 
18 us back to Texas. I don't know who paid for it. I know that the Latinos for Trump 
19 people were there. 
20 
21 Q 
A But this was after --
1 was always asking --I was always asking who paid for it and nobody ever 
22 told me. I was like, who's paying for all this, you know? And they were like, oh, we 
23 have sponsors. You know, nobody ever told me who it was. 
24 
25 Q But that was after January 6th, right? 
A Yeah, that was way after January 6th.  Yeah, okay. 
And that's when I first met Enrique is my point. 
Okay. Gotcha. 36 
1 
2 
3 
4 Q 
A 
Q 
A I didn't know him prior to, but I met him one day. But, you know, and had 
5 a conversation about his situation, but nothing in any kind of depth, you know. 
6 
7 
8 Q 
A 
Q How about Kellye SoRelle? 
Don't know that person. 
Okay. And you mentioned Latinos for Trump. So did you talk to Bianca 
9 Gracia before? 
10 A Yeah. Bianca was the leader, I guess, and I didn't even know her last name. 
11 I don't think she liked me very much, but I had a few brief conversations with her, but 
12 nothing substantive. 
13 Q Okay. So in terms of the organization Vets for Trump, was there any --any 
14 attempt to organize members to go to D.C. on January 5th or 6th? 
15 A We did. We put out on --I'm sure that we put out, you know, on our 
16 Face book stuff for everybody to come, but I don't recall crafting any of those messages 
17 myself. I think that those were all put together by --probably by Vlad Lemets, but --and 
18 I don't remember anything particularly provocative about those statements. It was all, 
19 you know, come to the rally on January 6th or whatever. But I'm assuming we did. 
20 don't recall anything specific, but I'm assuming we did. 
21 Q Okay. So you as yourself a spokesman, you did not put out any 
22 statements --
23 A Not that I recall. Yeah, not that I recall. You know, we wanted everybody 
24 to be there, clearly, because, you know, I mean, it was --but, you know, we wanted 
25 everybody to be there, but I don't recall personally sending anything out. I probably did  37 
1 on my own Facebook pages just because I was going to be there, but not --and everybody 
2 knows I'm also the --I was also the national spokesman for Vets for Trump. 
3 
4 or --
5 
6 
7 Q 
A 
Q 
A Got it. So you don't remember if the messaging was about Stop the Steal 
No. I don't think so. 
--election litigation? 
Because I don't remember using --I don't remember talking much about 
8 Stop the Steal unless it was like, you know, in reference to somebody else's event maybe, 
9 but --and I don't even recall the next --I very rarely --I try to avoid sharing people's stuff 
10 because I can't control what they do. So I only do that on rare occasions. 
11 And I got to tell you, you guys, the most frustrating part of this is everybody thinks 
12 that there was a plan. I had no knowledgeability about any kind of anything except 
13 going on January 6th and bitching about like how we felt that the election had been 
14 handled. But, you know, I do think that there were some nefarious actors that probably 
15 took advantage of the passions of the American people, you know, and I've written 
16 extensively about it, so --
17 Q Fair. So in terms of the Vets for Trump --and, you know, that's exactly 
18 what we're trying to figure out is, was there a plan or what happened. 
19 
20 A 
Q Uh-huh. 
So for the messaging, was it about election litigation? We already 
21 know the Trump rallies --
22 A I --I have not personally talked about election litigation. I know that there 
23 are people involved in the Vets for Trump organization that are very, very focused on the 
24 election litigation and all this stuff. 
25 I have avoided it because I just don't --I've just avoided it because I don't --you  38 
1 know, my expertise is in a totally different field, and so I just avoid the conversation. 
2 But, you know, I think that, in particular, Josh probably --I don't know so much Vlad --but 
3 have focused more on those kinds of topics.  39 
1 
2 [3:02 p.m.] 
3 BY 
4 Q So and because --I know you can't remember specifics. I was asking 
5 specifically about like stuff that's --the Vets for Trump, as the organization, would send 
6 out, so separate from what Josh or Vlad might say individually. 
A Yeah. 
Q Like when you send like messaging Members --7 
8 
9 A Not that I recall, guys. I honestly --if I did, I don't remember it. And like I 
10 said, people, you know, sometimes get passionate, but I don't recall. I have tried to 
11 avoid being that --
12 
13 
14 
15 Q Yeah. 
A --but it's difficult sometimes. 
Q Do you remember anything in those messages about the Insurrection Act? 
A I did hear people talking about the Insurrection Act, you know, and I guess I 
16 just always kind of laughed on the inside, you know what I mean. Like they're --
17 Q And this was Vets for Trump --you remember Vets for Trump organization 
18 knowing about the --
19 A No. Well, let me think. No, I don't think that any of the guys that I was on 
20 a regular --you know, Vlad, Josh, between the two, Josh may have mentioned it, but, you 
21 know, I rebuff those kinds of conversations because I don't think that they're legitimate, 
22 you know, approaches to the problem. But I don't remember --no one was advocating 
23 for like the Insurrection Act that I recall. If they were, I blew them off and ignored it, 
24 so --
25 Q All right. In terms of how the Vets for Trump communicated with those  1 Members, I'm just going to rattle off some stuff and you let me know if you remember. 
2 So email? 
3 A They have an email list. It's not very big, but they have a --I mean, it's 
4 pretty big, but it's not that big. 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 Q Would they send out a newsletter to that email list? 
A Huh-uh. 
Q No? 
A Not a regular newsletter, not that I'm aware of. I don't get it. 
Q Yeah. So social media, I think you said Facebook? 40 
10 A Social media, Facebook, a couple Facebook pages. That's where the bulk of 
11 their messaging goes out on, Facebook. 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 Q Twitter? 
A I don't know because I don't check Twitter. 
Q Telegram? 
A Not that I'm aware of. 
Q Parler? 
A I have a Telegram account, barely use it, so I don't know. 
Q All right. Parler? 
A I know that there was an effort to try and get everybody over to Parler but 
20 that failed. And I have a Parler account. I don't think I've ever used it. 
21 
22 
23 
24 Q All right. Zella? 
A No, not that I'm aware. I don't even know what Zella is really. 
Q Any others that you can recall? 
A I know that people use Signal because of, you know, privacy concerns. 
25 have a Signal account. I have a few friends that use it, but not officially.  1 
2 
3 Q 
A 
Q 
4 groups? 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 41 
Okay. So Vets for Trump doesn't have a Signal account? 
No. Well, I mean, yeah, we don't have a --not that I know of. I don't. 
Yeah. So I'm also going to ask if Vets for Trump coordinated with any other 
I'm sure they did. 
You're sure they did, okay. 
Yeah. 
So I'll list off --
I'm sure they do, yeah, but I don't know other than the Latinos for Trump, 
10 Bianca, Virginia Women for Trump, you know, in any kind of a substantive way. I only 
11 know about those. 
12 Q All right. And just for --to make sure I heard you correctly, so you are the 
13 spokesman for Vets for Trump, and do you know if they have a Twitter account and if 
14 they use the Twitter account? 
15 A Honestly, I don't know. I'm assuming they do because they --I'm assuming 
16 they do, but I don't follow it, and I have never posted on it as the national spokesman on 
17 Twitter. Some of my statements may have been moved over to Twitter by Vlad or 
18 a --you know, other board members or whatever, but they would've been like retweeted. 
19 They wouldn't be --because I don't --I don't tweet. I don't --so if they have an account, 
20 I don't watch it. 
21 
22 
23 
24 Q 
A 
Q 
A So when you were spokesman, your role was more to talk -­
Correct. 
--and then you didn't control the social media? 
Yeah, I'm definitely a public speaker. I hate social media. In fact, I think 
25 that the reason we're in this big mess right now is because of damn social media, but -- 1 
2 
3 Q All right. - do you have a followup? 
BY 
Q Yeah. I just wanted to ask, you mentioned that you have, personally, you 
4 have a Signal account? 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 A I do. 
Q Did you participate in any conversations about planning for the 5th --
A Did not. 
Q --or the 6th over Signal? 
A Did not. 
Q Sorry, just --
A I didn't --
Q Just wait until I finish the question and then you can answer. 
A Okay. Go ahead. 42 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 Q Sorry. Just did you participate in any conversations about planning for the 
15 5th or the 6th through Signal? 
16 A I don't --I can't imagine that I did. Let me look just real quick. I could tell 
17 you if I looked at my phone, but, no, I didn't participate in any planning anything of any 
18 kind at any time on any platform with anybody other than what I've already described, 
19 and that was, you know, the sort of an ad hoc speak on the stage and asked and invited 
20 by the people who I knew. 
21 Q And, sorry, I didn't mean --I don't mean to use the word "plan" to indicate 
22 any kind of nefarious intent. I just mean, did you have conversations on Signal about 
23 plans to attend the 5th or the 6th rallies? 
24 A I'd have to look, guys. I honestly --I don't --I may have, but I don't know 
25 off the top of my head. But I --when we say planning, that means to just attend. It  43 
1 wouldn't mean to be participating in anything, because I never planned to do anything 
2 except speak on a stage. 
3 Q Do you recall any like, let's say, group chats that you were part of on Signal 
4 that were more than a couple people? 
5 A Oh, you know what? Oh, no, thank you for reminding me. Yes. No. 
6 Was that on Signal? I was part of a group chat. You're reminding me now. Let 
7 me --from December, I think, is when that group chat was created that I was a part of, 
8 but they never really talked to me. Like I don't think they trusted me or something like 
9 that. I tried to attend some of these things that I --that I heard that these --that some 
10 people were doing something. I tried to attend a couple of those things, but they blew 
11 me off. So but I had totally forgotten about that. Thank you for remind --yeah, I had 
12 totally forgotten about that. 
13 Q Sure. 
14 A And I don't think there was anything in it that was --now you've got me 
15 curious. I'm going to have to look, because I don't know. 
16 Q Are you able to tell me who were the --was the group chat associated with 
17 some group, or what was the name of the group chat? 
18 A I don't --I don't remember. It was a --okay. Man, you had --I had totally 
19 forgotten about this group chat, guys. I had totally forgotten about it. I don't know. 
20 Honestly, I don't know any of these people in here so I can't really --I can't really name 
21 them. 
22 
23 
24 
25 Q Is there a name of the group chat? 
A It's the December 12th D.C. security leadership. 
Q And can you tell me who the individuals on that group chat are? 
A I think out of the interest of confidentiality I will not, not because I --but I  44 
1 will look at this, and if I think it's --I'm just going to have to read through it. I had totally 
2 forgotten about this --this group chat. I had seriously --
3 Q If you don't want to reveal specific names, could you just give Signal user 
4 names? 
5 
6 
7 A I would rather --you guys, I would rather not right now. 
Q I understand that you would rather not --
A Guys, I do know that these people are security people that were involved in 
8 the --I have not looked at this probably since then, guys. 
9 Q And if you could complete that sentence, security people that were involved 
10 in --
11 A They were involved in the December 12th Flynn security people, is what it 
12 looks like to me. 
13 Q So you previously identified those people, I think, as First Amendment 
14 Praetorian so --
15 
16 
17 
18 right. A 
Q 
A Yeah, I'm guessing it could be them. Honestly, I don't know, because --
Okay. So --
--I don't know. Yeah, because like Alice Butler-Short, I think, added me, 
Q 19 Okay 
A So this was --and I --I'll --I have to look in here and find out even if I texted 
on this. I think I was just kind of given access so I could see what they were talking 
22 about, but I don't even remember reading it other than that it was --you know, clearly 
23 you guys probably know as much right now about this chat as I do, because I don't even 
24 remember --oh, oh, oh. And Bill Cook is on this thing too. Bill Cook, I think, is the 
25 Virginia Watchmen guys. Is that the group you guys were talking about before?  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 It might be. 
Mr. Speciale. That's the --1 think --I think maybe that's -­
Q 
A BY 
Is Josh Macias on this group chat as well? 
I don't --I haven't looked through the whole thing yet, but I'll have to look, 45 
6 guys. And, again, I just don't want to --you know what I mean. I'm not --I'll look at it. 
7 If I think that it's something that's security related or violence related, but my recollection 
8 is I didn't feel like this was an anything --anything other than them coordinating their 
9 movements around the city and like kind of like scoping out certain locations and making 
10 sure things were safe. 
11 But I will read it. As soon as we get off this, I will read it and I'll shoot you guys a 
12 message and I'll say, you know, hey, I've looked through this thing, it's innocuous or it 
13 isn't. And I will tell you whether it is or isn't. But --
14 
15 
16 Q 
A BY 
And just for the record --
And if it is not innocuous --if it is not innocuous and it is any kind of 
17 a --looks to me anything more than just people coordinating their activities around the 
18 city on the 12th of December, then, you know, I will definitely tell you. 
19 Q Okay. So was this conversation --did this conversation continue through 
20 January 5th and 6th, or was it only about December 12th? 
21 A The last message --I can't see a date here. Okay. Oh, no, there are some 
22 messages --the last message I have --but I don't recall ever reading these, just so you 
23 guys know. The last real messages that I have are from like the 2nd, but, again, you 
24 guys, I never checked this. I didn't even know these were here. I've totally forgotten 
25 about it.  46 
1 So I'll have to look at it and see. If I think there's something in there that --if I 
2 think there's something in there that needs to be brought to the committee's attention 
3 after I review it, I will do it. I promise you that. But I --you know, I don't know who 
4 any of --most of these people in this thing, I don't even know who they are. 
Q Okay. 5 
6 A You know, I know Reverend Cook. And I know --you know, I met a few of 
7 the people, but I don't know them. 
8 BY 
9 
10 Q Okay. 
A I'm pretty sure Alice Butler-Short got me added to that list, but I wasn't a 
11 real participant in the thing. Now, it was done specifically so that in case they needed to 
12 talk to me, I think, they could. But I never had any --I don't even think I tweeted --I 
13 don't think I signaled in it at all. I may have said, hey, guys, it's me, but that's about it. 
14 Q Okay. And then just for the record, I'll just ask that you maintain that 
15 Signal chat, and then if at some later date, we ask you to produce it, we can discuss that. 
16 A Okay. I --yeah, just in glancing at it, guys, I don't see anything in it. But 
17 it's, you know, probably a couple hundred Signal messages, but I'll preserve it. 
18 
19 
20 
21 Q Okay. Thanks. 
A I don't have any problems with that. 
BY 
Q Thank you so much. And then just to round that out, you mentioned you 
22 had a Telegram. Do you remember any group chats in Telegram about the --attending 
23 January 5th and 6th? 
24 A You're making me question now whether or not I know. I have Telegram. 
25 You could have just jumped to this. This would've been a big revelation for me too,  47 
1 guys. I'm not seeing anything in here that looks like a group chat to me. Like I see the 
2 Vets for Trump thing, but I've never participated in it or read it. 
3 Yeah, I'll look through this as well, but, you know, I don't --again, you guys, 
4 regardless of what's in this phone, I honestly don't have any knowledgeability of it 
5 because I didn't use it. 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 Q 
A Did you say there was a Vets for Trump Telegram chat? 
There is, yeah. But that's the first I even knew that. 
Q Would you be able to --can you preserve that as well? 
A I'll preserve my whole phone, guys. 
Q Okay. 
A I'm not trying to hide anything. 
Q We thank you. Very much appreciate that. 
A I'm not trying to hide anything. 
Q So then --so back to, you mentioned that Vets for Trump as an organization 
15 was coordinating with other organizations, and I heard Latinos for Trump, Women for --I 
16 always get it backwards, Virginia Women for Trump. 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 A Yep. 
Q How about any Oath Keepers? 
A Not that I'm aware of, not in any kind of an official way that I'm aware of. 
Q Okay. 
A 
Q 
A I never did. I never did. 
Right. But the organization itself, you don't know? 
I don't know whether they did or didn't. 
Q Okay. Proud Boys? 
A Not that I know of. I know that Josh knew Enrique somehow, but I don't  1 know what --to what degree or whatever. Like I don't know how well or what the 
2 extent of the relationship is. 
3 
4 
5 Q 
A 
Q Three Percenters? 
Not that I'm aware of. 
I'm guessing not in this because you didn't remember the name, First 
6 Amendment Praetorian Guard? 48 
7 A No idea. Honestly, I don't know any of these people, right, just so you guys 
8 know. 
9 
10 Q 
A How about Women for America First? 
That was actually kind of a --like Alice Butler-Short did not like those people. 
11 They --they're now involved doing stuff, but I have no connection to any of them. 
12 mean, I may have spoken to them, but I --no --there's no official relationship. 
13 
14 
15 Q 
A 
Q Fair enough. 
There isn't even an unofficial relationship. 
Okay. Do you know if Vets for Trump coordinated with any local militia 
16 groups or any other militia groups? 
17 
18 A 
Q No. No. 
All right. How did --did Vets for Trump decide to have an official presence 
19 at January 5th or January 6th? 
20 A I mean, as official as you can be being a grassroots veterans organization 
21 that supports the President. That's the extent of it. 
22 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A 
Q 
A Do you know how many people ended up showing up from Vets for Trump? 
No idea. 
There was --so there was no centralized list -­
No.  1 
2 
3 Q 
A 
Q --of people? 
No. 
Okay. And so was there any --there was no preparation involved as an 
4 organization to attend? 
5 A No. We brought some T-shirts and threw T-shirts out to the crowd a 
6 couple times, but that's about it. 49 
7 Q Okay. I'd like to note for the record that senior investigative counsel -
8 -has joined. 
9 Thank you, 
12 Q All right. So moving on to January 5th, you already mentioned that you 
13 were a speaker at the Women for Virginia Trump rally and that they invited you to speak. 
14 Do you remember what you said? 
15 A I reviewed that speech recently. That's the only one I can really find. 
16 That's the speech where --I mean, okay, so you've got to start on January 5th with the 
17 protest that I actually stopped, okay. 
18 
19 
20 
21 Q 
A 
Q 
A Well, that was --that's going to be my next question actually. 
Yeah. 
So why don't I just ask you about a specific line. That's probably easier. 
The line that got everybody concerned was is that I said no matter how cold 
22 it gets or how wet it gets or how violent it gets, we're not leaving, okay. Remember, I 
23 said, I don't write any speeches, okay. I thought it was a great and powerful line, but 
24 people need to understand that the comment was in relationship to the fact that 
25 moments before, like probably maybe like an hour before, while we were setting up for  50 
1 the rally, two women carrying a flag of some kind walked through a rally area and they 
2 were sprinkling something on the ground. 
3 Well, the Capitol Police decided that they wanted to investigate what it was 
4 because they thought it might be a biological weapon attack. And so they pushed --the 
5 police came. It was like, I don't know, it was like --I recall like six little policemen. It's 
6 like not very many people. And they like had everybody move across the street. 
7 Well, the crowd, couple hundred maybe, 500 people got very, very upset at the 
8 Capitol Police and were yelling and screaming at the Capitol Police while they were trying 
9 to do this investigation of the biological weapon attack. 
10 So I went over and talked to the captain that was on the Supreme Court grounds. 
11 I went over. He was on his radio. I was literally within like 5 or 6 feet of him, and I 
12 listened to his radio call and he was calling in his HAZMAT team. 
13 And so when he got off the radio, I said, sir, what can I do to help? What do you 
14 need from me to help? And he said, I just need everybody to stay across the street for 
15 like 20 minutes. We've already got these two people detained. We're going to call in 
16 the HAZMAT team. They're going to investigate it, you know, and then you guys will go 
17 back to your rally. And I was like, okay, sir, no problem. 
18 So I go back over to the crowd, and I literally by myself, with no bullhorn, had to 
19 shout down all these people, okay, because they were yelling and screaming at these --I 
20 recall it being like four or five little, Black, female Capitol Police that are facing down this 
21 crowd of like 500 yelling, screaming Americans, right. And --so I shouted them all 
22 down. 
23 And I said during that speech or during --when I shouted everybody down, I said, 
24 we don't do this. We don't go after the police. We back the blue. That's what we 
25 do. We do not do this. And here is what I really said. I said, this is exactly what the  1 left wants us to do. 
2 And there was a guy there, he was wearing a flag shirt and he had a shield and a 
3 helmet, and he was like, they're trying to take away our rights or whatever kind of crazy 
4 crap he was yelling. And I shouted him down too. And I said, we don't do this. We 
5 don't fight with the police. That's what the left wants. 
6 Now, bear in mind, that's all informed from my looking at revolutions and 
7 insurrections --real ones --all over the world for the last 30 years. And that's how it 
8 works. 
9 
10 Q 
A So let me stop you. 
So the point I'm trying to make, , is, and I'll get to the point I'm trying 
11 to make, the point I'm trying to make is, my comment on the stage was about violence 51 
12 from the left. It wasn't the violence from the right that I was worried about. None of 
13 us were worried about that. 
14 I have talked to hundreds of people since then that are just as stunned with what 
15 happened on January 6th as I am. But it's because, I'm telling you, after studying 
16 revolutions and insurrections for the last 30 years, okay, we're talking Afghanistan, Iran, 
17 Libya, we're talking Venezuela, we're talking about these revolutions, they all start the 
18 same way. 
19 Q Okay. So let me just --I get your point. So when you were talking about 
20 how violent it gets, we will take our country back, that's a quote from your line? 
21 
22 A 
Q Yes, correct. That's correct. 
How do you --was your --what is the expectation of taking the country back, 
23 like how does that happen --
24 A Look, guys, you --I know that we all live in our --we all kind of live and work 
25 in our own bubbles, okay. I live in a bubble in the intelligence community about looking  1 at the actual threats arrayed against our country, the actual threats. Like I know a lot 
2 about Russian active measures. I know a lot about what the Chinese are doing. Long 
3 before the director of FBI came out and said, hey, we need to worry about China, like a 
4 week ago, I have been warning about China for --since I ran my political campaign in 
5 2020, and I started noticing that even before then. 
6 So what I'm trying to say is, is there are real foreign enemies out there, real 
7 foreign enemies. The director of FBI, himself, the director of FBI --
8 
9 Q 
A Well--
Well, let me tell you why that's important. I know, but I've got to tell you 52 
10 this. This is critical. The director of FBI just said, when we tally up what we see in our 
11 investigations, over 2,000 of which are focused on the Chinese Government trying to steal 
12 our information or technology, there is just no country that represents a broader threat 
13 to our ideas, the innovations, our economic security than does China. 
14 Q Mr. Speciale, I don't mean to speak over you, but we do want to talk --we 
15 want to stick to January 5th and 6th. 
16 A I know. I know. But listen to this quote from Director Wray: The CCP is 
17 patient and is --and in its pursuit aiming to recruit early career politicians even at the 
18 State and local level who can then be called on to do Beijing's bidding when they 
19 power --when their power and influence grows. 
20 I've known about this threat of China influence in our country for 10 years, okay. 
21 The American people don't necessarily know this until the director of FBI comes out and 
22 says it. So what I'm trying to say is this, when we see these protests and we see --I 
23 
24 
25 believe we are in a cultural revolution right now in the United States, 
Q But how does that --okay, and,  1 A I believe we are in a cultural revolution. So --I know, but my point is, is 
2 when I'm saying violence, take our country back, I'm talking from a position of absolute 
3 knowledge that we have foreign enemies out there that are trying to tear our country 
4 apart and they are preying on the passions of these people. And that's what I was 
5 talking about. 
6 Q So how --can you explain the take our country back part. If there's 
7 violence, how do you do that? 
8 A Because I believe that there is --and I say it, and I don't know if you guys 
9 have read it or not, but have you read my report that is a published on Amazon? 
10 
11 
12 Q 
A 
Q I have not read your report. But just in terms of your speech, when --
1 know, but here is --here it is. Here is exactly what I mean, okay. 
Well, all right, so I will --I'll take your point, Mr. Speciale, that you were 
13 worried about the left on January 5th. And we can --
14 
15 
16 A 
Q 
A No, I'm not worried about the left. 
That day when you --you said you --the violence --
No. No, I'm not worried about the left. I'm worried about anyone that 
17 would carry out violence in our country, anyone. And I believe that our own 
18 government has fallen prey to an offensive counterintelligence operation being 53 
19 perpetrated against the American people, and it is dividing our country and that division 
20 is being preyed upon by our enemies. The FBI director has said this, the DNI director has 
21 said this, but they all said it a year after I said it. 
22 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A 
Q 
A Okay. 
Okay? 
I hear you, Mr. Speciale. So I'm --
I'm not talking about just violence from the left,  1 Q Please let me finish my question before you speak over me for the court 
2 reporter, so that she --
3 
4 
5 
6 A Okay. Sorry. 
Q --doesn't have to do that. 
A Sorry, 
Q So we'll move on from the speech. Do you remember how the crowd 
7 reacted to that line? 54 
8 A I'm pretty sure they probably cheered. I mean, I get a lot of applause when 
9 I speak, because I --I'm a pretty effective speaker. 
10 Q Okay. So before --was there a change in the crowd before that line and 
11 after that line? 
12 
13 A No, not that I'm aware of. 
Q All right. Do you remember if anyone else from Vets for Trump went to the 
14 January 5th rally? 
15 
16 
17 A 
Q 
A I think everybody that I know was there. 
Everybody that you --so who is that, Josh --
Josh, Vlad. I don't --I don't remember seeing Vlad. I don't remember 
18 seeing Vlad on January 6th, but I remember seeing Josh. 
19 
20 Q You remember seeing Josh. Was Tony there, Lamotta? 
A You know, I think so, but I'm not sure. I remember him from December. 
21 And I've even looked at the video and I --but I haven't looked for him, guys. I don't 
22 know. Again, I don't --I never really paid too much attention to --oh, no, he was there. 
23 No, Tony was there. Tony was there, because I saw him for sure. After everything 
24 happened I remember seeing Tony, so he must have been there. 
25 Q Okay. So on January 5th then, was Vets for Trump doing any sort of  55 
1 security for the event? 
2 A Informally. Informally, as far as I am aware. You know, again, I look really 
3 intimidating because I'm bald and I walk around in front of the stage and make sure 
4 people are polite. That's all. 
5 
6 Q 
A So what is informal security exactly? 
It means I'm there. That's all. I just stand out in front and that was it. 
7 So it was very informal. It wasn't, you know, like please be security. In fact, I think 
8 the --I think there was some --on the 6th at the vet --Latinos for Trump rally, I think 
9 there were some Oath Keeper guys there. No, I know there were some Oath Keeper 
10 guys, but I don't know if they were security or not. But I know that they were wearing 
11 kit, so --
12 
13 
14 
15 Q 
A 
Q 
A But on the 5th, do you remember any Oath Keepers or Proud Boys? 
I don't --I don't remember. 
Okay. 
I remember walking back in front of the stage. I don't remember anybody 
16 else helping me, so --
17 Q And no other Vets for Trump were doing informal security either then? 
18 A No, they would have been informal. I mean, you know, you're not 
19 really --look, guys, this is part of the --
20 Q Mr. Speciale, that was my question was, were any other Vets for Trump 
21 doing what you were doing --
22 
23 
24 
25 A 
Q 
A 
Q Part of the frustration I have with the --
Sorry, Mr. Speciale, please let me finish my questions. 
Go ahead. 
Were any other Vets for Trump acting as informal security with you on  56 
1 January 5th? 
2 A Josh was standing around, but I don't even remember him up in front. But 
3 I don't --but it was so informal that I don't even know. 
4 Go ahead, 
5 BY 
6 Q Did you have any discussions leading into the 5th with any other Vets for 
7 Trump about your plans to perform some sort of informal security role? 
8 A I mean, Alice, I worked through Alice. I wasn't --I wasn't --Alice organized 
9 that event on the 5th. 
10 Q So you never talked --you never had a conversation with Mr. Macias about 
11 him also performing an informal security role? 
12 A Yeah, I think --no, I think --because he knew Alice as well. So Alice, I think, 
13 asked us to just be security for the event. 
14 Q I'm not asking about a conversation between you and Alice. I'm asking 
15 about a conversation between you and Mr. Macias. Did you ever discuss acting as 
16 informal security? 
17 A Probably, you know, but I don't --but, again, it's so informal that it's just like, 
18 you know, I'll stand out in front, you know what I mean. It wasn't like any kind of an 
19 official thing that I recall. I mean, I could have, but it's so informal that I don't 
20 remember any --anything specific about it. 
21 BY 
22 Q Is there a reason that you and/or Mr. Macias would've believed you needed 
23 to be informal security? 
24 A Well, no. We just --no. You just --you never know with --like you never 
25 know if somebody is going to come up and, you know, throw a shoe, you know what I  57 
1 mean. Like there was no --we weren't aware of any --of any threats of any kind, like 
2 any kind of specific threat against us. But it's just a way also that you, you know, 
3 present yourself as some kind of, you know, a safe environment for people, you know. 
4 BY 
5 Q How did Ms. Butler communicate her request that you perform the security 
6 role? 
7 A Honestly, I don't know, guys. I'd have to go back and look at stuff. It 
8 was --you know, Alice and I talked --
9 
10 
11 call. 
12 Q 
A 
Q Do you remember if it was a phone call? 
Alice and I talked on the phone quite a bit, so I'm sure that it was by a phone 
Okay. Were there any other --I know Ms. Butler was also the one that 
13 added you to the chat planning for security for December 12th. Is that correct? 
14 A I believe it was her or under her impetus. Like I don't --you know what I 
15 mean, I think she coordinated that. I don't --
16 Q Was there --were there any other group discussions or chats like that one 
17 for the --
18 A Honestly, I don't remember, -or I don't remember. 
19 honestly don't. I didn't even remember that one until you reminded me of it. 
20 
21 
22 
23 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
24 it because --
25 Q I think we've discussed Signal and Telegram. 
Uh-huh. 
That's right? Do you use any other applications to chat securely? 
Not --I wouldn't even say that I use it to chat securely, guys. I don't. I use 
Have you downloaded any --have you downloaded any other applications  58 
1 like that? 
2 A I know --I don't --I don't think I do. I, you know, many years ago I --you 
3 guys have got to realize, I do this stuff professionally too, so it's really difficult to like 
4 know like if I have --like most of the time --like I have a Three ma account that 
5 people --that I was associated with when I was doing my campaign, because they're all 
6 paranoid about the damn government, that I used. But like I haven't opened this thing 
7 in --I'm just opening it now after --the last message on this thing is from 5 of '21. 
8 Q Okay. I'm just asking simply, do you recall right now, other than Signal and 
9 Telegram, any other applications you've used to chat privately about the 5th or the 6th? 
10 A Not --I will tell you point blank, I have never used any app to chat privately 
11 about anything unless that was the only way I could communicate with somebody else --
12 
13 
14 
15 Q 
A 
Q Okay. 
--because I only care what --
BY 
Let me try to clarify. I think is asking, similar to the 
16 December 12th group chat that you were added into, were you similarly added into or 
17 part of any other Telegram, Signal, whatever platform chat to discuss security or any 
18 other thing about January 5th and 6th? 
19 A If I was, I absolutely don't remember, and nothing that was said in any of 
20 them I felt was in any way alerting to violence. If there was, I would've stopped it. 
21 And so on all of my messaging, on all of my communications with every 
22 association I've ever had, I would not have participated in any conversations regarding 
23 violence, just so you know. 
24 Q Not necessarily violence. For the record, we were asking about, you know, 
25 being there -- 1 
2 
3 
4 A 
Q 
A I know. I understand that. But I'm being very clear --
Please let me finish. Please let me finish my questions, Mr. Speciale. 
Go ahead. 
Q We were not talking about violence. We were --and when we use the 59 
5 word "planning," we're not talking about nefarious planning. We're just talking in 
6 general, any of those group chats that you got added to or that you started or whatever 
7 that talked about being in Washington, D.C. on January 5th and 6th, and secondarily, if 
8 you remember talking about security in any of those. 
9 
10 
11 A Not that I recall, guys. 
Q Okay. 
A I don't recall. And as you can see, I don't participate in social media that 
12 much, and I consider these things social media, you know. 
13 Q Thank you. Thank you very much. 
14 So just to reorient us, back at the January 5th rally, you don't recall seeing Proud 
15 Boys there? 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 A On the --on the 6th? 
Q On the 5th. We're still on the 5th. 
A On the 5th, I --I wouldn't --if I did, I didn't pay them any attention. 
Q That's okay. All right. 
A Yeah, if I did, I didn't pay them any attention. 
Q So is it fair to say Vets for Trump on January 5th was not coordinating with 
22 the Oath Keepers, the Proud Boys, Three Percenters? 
23 
24 A Not that I'm aware of. 
Q Okay. Did you otherwise --do you know if you met up with any members 
25 of those groups on those days?  60 
1 A You mean in some kind of like official meeting or you mean like passing them 
2 on the street? 
3 
4 
5 
6 Q 
A Did you have conversations with them? 
I did. There were --at the --but this is on the --we're still on the 5th, right? 
Q We're still on the 5th. 
A On the 6th, no, not that I recall. There might have been some people there 
7 in the crowd or whatever, but I didn't have any kind of long, extensive conversation with 
8 any of them. 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 Q 
A But on the 5th you did have conversations? 
No, on the 5th I did not. 
Q Okay. On the 5th you did not? 
A On the 5th I did not, that I recall. 
Q Did you meet with Roger Stone at the January 5th rally? 
A Meet with. You guys need to work on your questioning, okay. There's a 
15 better way to ask that question, okay. Roger Stone spoke on the same stage, and I said 
16 something to him. I don't remember what it was. But that's it. 
17 
18 Q All right. 
A You know, he was coming and going. You know, I was like, hey, nice to 
19 meet you kind of thing. It wasn't anything formal. No actual --I would say, the answer 
20 is technically, no. But, you know, he was on the stage so I saw him, I met him, that's it. 
21 
22 
23 
24 Q All right. Then was that the first time you had met him? 
A Yeah, first time. 
Q All right. And, no, you did not have a long conversation with him? 
A No, like literally --I don't even know if we actually spoke back and forth. 
25 probably just said something to him and he walked off, you know. I don't remember  61 
1 having any conversation with him at all. 
2 Q Totally fine. And you mentioned earlier Alan Hostetter and his 
3 organization, the American Phoenix Project. Were you aware that they helped 
4 coordinate the January 5th rally at which you spoke? 
5 A I do believe I knew that from Alice, but I didn't know anything about them. 
6 Like I --I believe that she probably said these are the guys that paid for all this or 
7 organized it or whatever, but it was --I was just like, okay. You know, I don't --that was 
8 the extent of it. 
9 
10 
11 
12 Q Okay. 
A And I got it --I heard that from Alice. 
Q All right. 
A And I talked to --you know, I talk to this guy Alan during that event, but, you 
13 know, it was like just a normal conversation just like we're having with anybody else. 
14 
15 
16 Q 
A Fair enough. So then you did not know Russ Taylor, Morton Irvine Smith? 
No. 
Q Okay. Do you have any idea if Vets for Trump as an organization worked 
17 with the American Phoenix Project? 
18 A No, not that I recall. I mean, I think they may have known each other 
19 probably, but I don't --I don't know of any official relationship. 
20 Q All right. So after the rally, did you spend most of your time on January 5th 
21 and 6th with Mr. Macias? 
22 A No. He --I don't know where Josh went after --it was --that was a really 
23 long day. I don't think --yeah, I don't think at all --I don't remember honestly. I don't 
24 remember anything of any substance after the rally on the 5th. Like I don't remember 
25 having any --like I don't even remember what I ate. I don't even --I don't remember  62 
1 anything that evening being of any substance at all. 
2 
3 Q Were you with Mr. Macias that evening? 
A I don't recall being with him. I don't, not on that night. I'd have to think 
4 about it. I don't --I don't know. 
5 Q Well, were you aware that he recorded a video with Amanda Chase, Stewart 
6 Rhodes, Bianca Gracia, and Kellye SoRelle? 
7 A No, huh-uh. If I was, I dismissed it. A lot of times I click on the video for 
8 15 seconds, then I click off. You know, I know what he's going to say. I know what 
9 they're all going to say, so I don't have to listen. 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 Q But you were not with him --
A No, I don't believe I was. 
Q --when he recorded any video? 
A I don't think I was. 
Q 
Q Yeah, I just want to ask quickly, so I know on --it was Tuesday, 
17 February 15th, that you sent us an email when you received the --our original 
18 communication with Mr. Macias and Vets for Trump. And in that email you told us that 
19 you were present with Mr. Macias throughout January 5th and January 6th, and that's a 
20 quote from your email. Can you just specify the periods of time you were with 
21 Mr. Macias on January 5th and then also January 6th? 
22 A Okay. That's a great question. Very specifically, I believe, my recollection 
23 is, I saw Josh on January 5th during the rally. I don't recall anything after that at all. 
24 And then on January --I could've, but I honestly just don't recall. And then on 
25 the 6th, I saw him at the rally, at the --also at the Supreme Court but across the street in  63 
1 the park at the rally. And that was really my first contact with Bianca as well. 
2 And then after that rally I did not see him again until --we may have --no, I don't 
3 even think he walked with us over to the Capitol. I don't know what he did after that. 
4 When I went to the Capitol, I don't --he wasn't with me, I don't think. 
5 And then I met --I saw him at the end of the rally, of course, after all the craziness 
6 happened. And I --I'm guessing that that was like sometime around 4:30, because I 
7 think --wait --because I think --and I only know this because I just did some research on 
8 it recently, but I think Trump sent his tweet out for everybody to go home at like 4:17, 
9 and we were like, okay, time to go. And so we left. 
10 And so it was like immediately after that that I saw Josh, and that's where I 
11 remember Tony from, because Tony was with him on the backside of the Capitol. And 
12 we were kind of watching all the cuckoo birds smash all the media equipment. And 
13 that's where I saw the Antifa person that came up and --
Q Okay. We'll get into that. 
Yeah. 14 
15 
16 
17 - We'll get into some more details about the 6th. 
Mr. Speciale. But that's --those are the only two conversations that I had with 
18 him, or like those are the three times really that I remember sticking out is the 5th at the 
19 rally, the 6th at the rally, and then the 6th at the end, like about 4:30. And then we 
20 went our separate ways. 
21 BY 
22 
23 Q Okay. So taking that answer then I have a feeling you won't remember 
this, but just in case it spurs your memory, can we -- can we pull up exhibit 6, 
24 please. 
25 A What? Say again?  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 Q 
A 
Q Oh, I'm asking --sorry. I'm asking someone to pull up an exhibit. 
Okay. 
So that might spur your memory. 
-could you pull up exhibit 6. 
A You guys are really prepared, except you've got to work on questioning. 
I'll take that advice. 
I'm just teasing. 
I'm always looking --no, I'm always looking for -­
I'm just teasing you. I'm teasing you. 64 
10 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q I appreciate any constructive advice. So this, once it comes up, I'll give you 
11 a little preview of it. Exhibit 6 is a video that was recorded in which Mr. Macias, Amanda 
12 Chase, Stewart Rhodes, Bianca Gracia, and Kellye SoRelle are in a hotel room on 
13 January 5th having a conversation. 
14 
15 
16 A 
Q 
A Okay. I know for sure I was not there because --
Okay. 
--I was not in any hotel rooms with anybody at all, so I was on my own. 
17 Exept my own. 
18 Q 
19 exhibit 6. 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 A 
Q 
A Okay. Well, in that case, we don't have to --we don't have to show 
Yeah, I was not there. 
So we --
BY-: 
Okay. All right. 
If you had said it was on the street, I would want to see it because that might 
25 have been possible, but I don't remember seeing her there on the street.  1 Q Okay. That's fine. We don't --if you were not there, that's completely 
2 understandable. 
3 Were you also --in terms of what you were aware of, did you know that 
4 Mr. Macias had --met with Enrique Tarrio, Stewart Rhodes, and others in the garage of 
5 the Phoenix Hotel on the night of the January 5th? 
6 
7 A Not aware of that at all. 
Q And just for the record, in case this matters, s computer has 
8 frozen, which is why it still says he has started screen sharing, but he is trying to stop it. 
9 So --
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A Okay. 
--just note that for the record. So you are not aware of the -­
Not at all. 
--meeting in the garage? Okay. 
No. 65 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 Q So let's talk about January 6th then. You stated that Ms. Gracia invited you 
to speak? 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A Who? 
Bianca Gracia. 
On the 6th? 
Yeah. 
No. Alice Butler-Short arranged me --wait. On January 6th, I'm sorry. 
22 January 6th is the Latinos for Trump rally. No, I'm pretty sure Josh coordinated that with 
23 Bianca as the Vets for Trump spokesman. I --that's how I knew to be there even and 
24 speak there. 
25 Q Okay. So you didn't prepare in any way?  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 A No. 
Q Okay. ould we pull up exhibit 8 then. 
A Do you have my speech from that day? 
Q We have part of it. 
A Okay. Good. All right. Good. I think I said the same thing, didn't I? 
Q Well, we will hear part of it. 
Can you see it, 
We can see it. 
Mr. Speciale. We can see it. 
[Video shown.] 
BY 
Q Thankyou,_ ? 
Mr. Speciale, does that spur your memory? Was that you speaking on 
14 January 6th? 
15 
16 
17 
18 A Oh, that was definitely me. And, again, I will tie it back to --
Q Well, let me ask the question. Let me ask the specific questions. 
A Okay. Go ahead. 
Q So first off, you say they should more or less be running scared. Who is 
19 "they"? 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 A I didn't say running scared. 
Q Or be scared. 
A I said that they should be scared. 
Q Should be scared. Who is "they"? 
A And, yeah, because --and I said specifically because of the fears I have. 
25 And when I say doesn't go the right way, guys, my point I'm trying to make is 66  67 
1 that --this --you --it is so frustrating trying to answer your question when you guys have 
2 no knowledge of how revolutions and insurrections actually start around the world. I'm 
3 making an informed statement, okay. I am making an informed statement --
4 
5 
6 
7 Q 
A 
Q 
A Mr. Speciale, I asked you a specific question. Who is --who is --
1 know, and I'm going to answer it. 
No, just who is "they"? Who is "they"? 
I think "they" is the entire country. "They" is the whole country to me. In 
8 particular, I am talking specifically about the people that are in charge of making these 
9 decisions, which is Republicans and Democrats. It's not just on the right --or it's not just 
10 on the left, it's on the right and the left. 
11 So my point that I'm trying to make when I say that is that our country is under 
12 attack. And I believe --and I've said this a couple times. I've said it. We are under 
13 attack from within and without, and the director of FBI has just publicly admitted that 
14 they are carrying out 2,000 investigations against Chinese threats to the United States, 
15 okay. But I was saying that a year ago, and that's what my --that's what I'm talking 
16 about. 
17 Our country is in a cultural revolution, and that cultural revolution is one step 
18 away from a revolution if the people of the country do not have faith and confidence in 
19 their government. And the director of the DNI, the director of DNI just recently came 
20 out and said herself that a lack of transparency on the part of the Federal government is 
21 leading to extremism, conspiracy theories, and a lack of faith and confidence in the 
22 government. Now, that is something that the DNI just came out and said. But --
23 
24 
25 Q 
A 
Q So on that speech --Mr. Speciale. Mr. Speciale, please. 
But this report --hold on This report --
No, Mr. Speciale, I'm the one asking questions here, so please let me ask  68 
1 them. 
A Go ahead. Go ahead. 2 
3 Q So let me try to distill that then. When you're saying they should be scared 
4 and there will be bloody days ahead, are you thinking --you're speaking on January 6th? 
5 
6 A Correct. Correct. 
Q Are you --and you're speaking in front a lot of people on January 6th. Do 
7 you have --
8 
9 
10 A Yeah, couple hundred. 
Q Were you talking about "they," leaders that day? 
A Yeah, I was talking about leaders that day, of course. But not --but 
11 there --but I knew that there was no decision that they could've made that was going to 
12 change this, but we still, as a country, we still have to understand this threat against us. 
13 And I'm not just talking about threats from China. It's really, like I said, it's a threat from 
14 within as well. 
15 Social media is a major threat that we're dealing with right now, because people 
16 can say and do anything that they want and people believe it even though it's BS, right. 
17 That's where all thesis conspiracies and stuff come from, that's where QAnon comes from 
18 and crap like that. None of that stuff is based in any kind of fact. But people are so 
19 frustrated, they're so frustrated right now and fearful that they are vulnerable to tipping 
20 the country over into something else. 
21 I have said, going back to my campaign when I ran for U.S. Senate in 2020, in 2019 
22 and 2020, I have been warning of this problem. In fact, on October --in October, 
23 this --you guys need to hear this. 
24 
25 Q Okay. 
A No, I've got to tell you this. In October of 2020, October of 2020, I was  69 
1 serving as the senior collections strategist for domestic terrorism at the DNI and NCTC. 
2 And I spoke specifically to the domestic terrorism leadership at FBI. And I asked them 
3 this question, I said, have you guys explored any potential black swans? 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A Well, Mr. Speciale, before --
They don't even know what a black swan is. 
Mr. Speciale, please. 
Let me finish this. 
Just I want --1 just want to sum this up. I don't --
This is important. It's important because you can't say the FBI didn't have 
10 anybody warn them about potentialities like this because I did it myself. And I was 
11 warning that the extreme frustration in the country, coupled with the lack of 
12 transparency, coupled with false narratives about gun violence are leading to extremism 
13 in the country, and those --that extremism is leading to potential violence. And that's 
14 exactly --that's --now the FBI director is saying the same thing I'm saying and I've been 
15 saying for a year. 
16 Q Mr. Speciale, I actually --thank you for the summary. I was --my question 
17 was basically going to be, given what you were trying to say about extremism and how it 
18 could lead to bloody days ahead, when you're speaking on January 6th, how did you 
19 expect that to be taken by the crowd? 
20 A Exactly the way that I said it. Like we've got to --we have got to stop all of 
21 this division, and we need --we need our elected officials to stop putting their donors in 
22 front of the people they represent, and this is on all sides. 
23 Q But for the crowd, specific to the crowd, and do you regret at this point 
24 given what happened using rhetoric like that? 
25 A You know, you're the first person to ask me that question. And I don't  70 
1 regret it --I don't regret it that I said it at all. I regret that I wasn't effective --hold on a 
2 second. 
3 
4 
5 Q 
A 
Q Take your time. 
Sorry, guys. 
That's totally okay. Do you want to take a 5-minute recess or you're good? 
6 A No, I don't take breaks. I regret that I wasn't effective at NCTC in being 
7 able to convince them of what I ultimately wrote in this SO-page report. I regret that I 
8 didn't understand the danger that our country was in until January 6th. 
9 I knew that it was --was a potential, and that comes from, you know, 30 years of 
10 studying these kinds of problems around the world, all of the stuff that I wanted to tell 
11 you to help you understand the real causes, which you guys only want to like get your 
12 man. You don't really want a solution. You don't want to know what the government 
13 really needs to do. 
14 
15 Q 
A No, Mr. --
But I regret that I was not effective in helping the FBI at the time understand 
16 the need for transparency on the part of the government, the need to own their mistakes 
17 with regard to some of the illegal activities that were carried out by the FBI, and the 
18 danger that social media poses and is being used and the effectiveness of the active 
19 measures by both the Russians and the Chinese. I failed --
20 Q So let me --I very much appreciate you. So I take it, you don't --you regret 
21 the --okay. 
22 So let me just --I get --
23 
24 
25 A 
Q 
A You really got me, man. 
That's okay. 
I'm telling you right now, you got me, because I'm sad for our country.  71 
Thank you, Mr. Speciale. 
And I feel like I didn't do a good job. 1 
2 
3 Q 
A 
Q I'm --I feel for you, and I'm --I appreciate what you're saying. So let 
4 me --let us move on. I take that you don't --you're not regretting the rhetoric, you 
5 regret that it happened, so I appreciate that. 
6 And let me just note for the record that the select committee, we do take into 
7 consideration more than what we just talk about in these interviews, but for the purposes 
8 of this interview, why I'm trying to focus on that day is we're trying to get your 
9 perspective on the day. So it's not that we are discounting other things, it's just that we 
10 are here today in these limited hours --and, you know, we know you have a lot of 
11 time --we are here to talk about that day. 
12 So let's try to get back to that. And, you know, were you expecting any violence 
13 on January 6th? 
14 
15 
16 A 
Q 
A 
17 imagined it. No way. 
Okay. 
Not from our --not from our side I absolutely would've never 
18 Q All right. But you were worried about the potential of violence? I'm not 
19 saying that's caused by you, but --
20 A Well, because I know that when I proposed --if you'd have given me the 
21 opportunity in October when I said, if you guys, you know, thought about any potential 
22 black swans --which most people, if you're not in the military, you don't even know what 
23 a black swan is --the very first black swan I would've presented would be exactly what 
24 happened on January 6th. 
25 Q Okay. We'll -- 72 
1 A That would be the very first thing I would've suggested, because this is 
2 exactly how it starts all around the world. You get a very passionate crowd, you get 
3 everybody going in the same direction, and then a guy five levels back throws a brick at 
4 the policemen and usually in foreign countries the policemen shoot back, and that causes 
5 the insurrection. That's how it's done. That is how every one of them has been carried 
6 out in the country, has been done. 
7 And when I was going around the country when I would --1 went back to Chicago. 
8 My brother lives in Chicago, and we were talking --this is during the Black Lives Matter 
9 stuff, and I remember talking to a group of about ten cops and kind of giving them a 
10 domestic terrorism brief on what to really look for. 
11 And what I said was, don't look for the guy in front. The guy at the front of the 
12 line is not the problem. It's the guy five levels back that is coordinating everything. If 
13 you take that key communicator off the battlefield then you can get the whole thing to 
14 stop. But that's the kind of expertise that I bring to this conversation, guys, that I'm 
15 trying to tell you. 
16 Q Well, and that's why we're here and we're talking about this. So that's why 
17 I asked, you know, about your expectation of violence for this. I appreciate --
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A Not at all, 
But not --you were worried that it could happen? 
I was scared that it could happen, yeah. 
Yeah. 
Not on that particular day. I had no --like I had no --like I seriously 
23 would've never --I didn't go to that day expecting anything other than potentially, you 
24 know, Antifa guys. And I did, I saw at least two that I know of for a fact were not Trump 
25 supporters, but you don't want to hear that kind of stuff.  1 Q No, I do. I actually do, so thank you. We want to hear what you have to 
2 say, so --
3 A I hope you guys give me enough time, because I could keep going here for 
4 another 2 hours --
5 
6 
7 Q So what --
A --because I do care about this country just like you do. 
Q I can see that. So what were you expecting to happen that day? What, 
8 you know --73 
9 A Nothing. Like I thought --I honestly, when Trump said he was going down 
10 to the Capitol, I've said many times, if Trump had gone down to the Capitol, I don't think 
11 that any of that would've happened. I think he could've just gone up in front and said, 
12 stop, go home, everybody would've left. But he didn't. And I think agitators took 
13 advantage of people's passions. 
14 
15 Q All right. We'll get --
A If it had been me, if I had given that speech that the President gave and I'd 
16 have said I was going down to the Capitol, you better fucking believe I'd have been there, 
17 and that problem would not have happened had he done that. 
18 
19 crowd? 
20 
21 
22 Q Okay. So when you were speaking, were you just expecting to inform the 
A Yeah. 
Q Okay. 
A To be fearful. I want all of --I want all of America right now to be very 
23 fearful of the dangers --the dangerous precipice we are on in this country. We are in a 
24 cultural revolution. That is what is happening right now. Go get the definition of 
25 cultural revolution and you'll see that it is happening.  74 
1 Q Okay. So in terms of --back to the --to what you were saying that day, did 
2 you listen to President Trump's speech? 
3 A We did. We watched it from there. That big prompter behind my 
4 was --the President's speech was there. 
5 
6 
7 Q Okay. Got it. So you listened to it. You weren't at the Ellipse. 
A 
Q [Nonverbal response.] 
Did you get a sense of any change in the crowd around you when President 
8 Trump was talking about marching? 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 A No. 
Q Any sense of difference when he talked about we fight like hell? 
A No. 
Q And if you don't fight like hell --
A That's how he talks. That's how he's always talked. 
Q That's how he's talked, right, but you're sensing a crowd that is fearful? 
A No. No. There was no --everybody was just exactly the same way they 
16 were before he said that. It was the same. Everybody's --you know, I --you guys, it 
17 wasn't just one word that caused this. It wasn't just one speech. It wasn't --it's --it 
18 was burning cities all around the country combined with the threat people perceive of 
19 threats to the Constitution via the Second Amendment or the First Amendment, it's the 
20 lack of transparency by the --on the part of the Federal government, and a refusal to take 
21 responsibility for their mistakes. 
22 
23 Q I think --
A Those things are what lead to the violence.  75 
1 
2 [4:03 p.m.] 
3 BY 
4 Q I hear you, Mr. Speciale. So then if it wasn't President Trump who 
5 prompted you, were you expecting to go to the Capitol on January 6th? 
6 A Actually, no. You know, that's a good question. I think we --I'm guessing. 
7 I honestly don't know the answer to that, if I was planning on going to the Capitol or then 
8 everybody went to the Capitol. I honestly don't know. I think --I suspect that we all 
9 were going to go to the Capitol before he said that. 
10 Q Did you and Josh or any other Vets for Trump or any other people have 
11 conversations before that about going to the Capitol? 
12 
13 
14 A 
Q 
A Not that I recall. I mean, we may have, but I don't know. 
But it was your sense that you had decided before President Trump -­
Yeah. I believe --I believe so. I believe so. Because I know that there 
15 were other people that we were with --well, we weren't actually physically with, but 
16 other Chasing Freedom -Virginia people were already at the Capitol and didn't come to 
17 the speech at the thing. And I know that other people were at the Ellipse and were 
18 going to walk to the Capitol. I think they knew that and had told me they were all going 
19 to go to the Capitol. So I think that that was something that had been discussed in 
20 advance of him saying that. 
21 Q Do you remember how far in advance? Are we talking days? Are we 
22 talking hours? 
23 
24 
25 A That day. As far as I know, it was that day. I don't think --I don't know. 
Q And how are you --how are you in contact with the people on the Ellipse? 
A Well, I don't --I'm not even sure that I was actually --I wouldn't say I was in  76 
1 contact with them. I just knew that they were there either --because these are people 
2 that are just, like, not associated with Vets for Trump, not associated with anybody. 
3 They're just, like, my friends that I knew were --like Alice was at the Ellipse. You know 
4 what I mean? And so it would have been in just a conversation. It wouldn't have been 
5 any, like, specific plan or anything like that. It was just like, hey, we're all going to the 
6 Capitol. 
7 
8 
9 Q So it was just a general --I'm just trying to square this --
A 
Q Yeah. Just a general thing. Yeah. 
It was just a general --all right. And then do you remember how you got to 
10 the Capitol? 
11 
12 
13 A I do. I know exactly how I got there. 
Q All right. 
A We left the rally in the park, whatever --I think it's called Freedom Park or 
14 something like that. Imagine, called Freedom Park. 
15 
16 Q 
A Freedom Plaza. 
Freedom Plaza. Freedom Plaza. So we were --that thing ended, and then 
17 me and another friend --this is a different friend from December --went from there to 
18 straight, basically like right between the streets, like blocked off streets, I think it's the 
19 Senate office buildings maybe or something like that, and straight across to the Capitol. 
20 Like, straight --like, it's right --wherever --the shortest line is the way we went there. 
21 Q Yeah. I'm sorry. I forgot to ask this. When you were giving 
22 the --besides giving the speech on January 6th, were you also doing any informal security 
23 like you did --
24 A Same kind of thing. You know, if I'm there, like, I just like to be busy and 
25 also, you know --one of the things that you need to know, when you've been in the  77 
1 military for 27 years, you just do stuff that needs to be done, you know. And 
2 that's --that's how I would look at --you know, if something did happen and I wasn't able 
3 to protect somebody, I would not deal with that very well. 
4 
5 Q Okay. 
A So a lot of that was just on my own initiative, you know, but other people 
6 knew that I did that too. So it's not beyond imagination if they said, hey, do you mind 
7 standing out in front, you know what I mean, like that kind of thing. 
8 
9 
10 
11 Q Right. But you don't remember more of a conversation with --
A Not anything specific, no. 
Q So do you remember the name of your friend that you were with? 
A I do, but I'm not going to give it to you only because of privacy reasons. But 
12 I do know that he was talked to and like --but I don't know, some investigators talked to 
13 him. 
14 
15 Q Okay. Did you think it was okay to be on Capitol grounds? 
A I --yeah, I did. You know, I found out after the fact. Like, literally, I just 
16 saw the Ray Epps videos. Like, I had no idea that there had ever been any signs that said 
17 do not enter or, like, I never saw anything like that by the time I got there. So I didn't 
18 know there was any restricted area at all. 
19 
20 
21 Q Okay. 
A I had no idea. 
Q Do you think that entering the Capitol grounds was a reason that your friend 
22 was talked to? 
23 A Very probably, yeah. He's law enforcement, so it's very probable that, you 
24 know, that's probably why they wanted to talk to him first. 
25 Q Do you know if he's involved with any groups that we've talked about  78 
1 today--
2 A No. In fact, he's even --he's even less associated, , than I am. 
3 mean, he's literally just a personal friend who, you know, is part --you know, was 
4 involved with Chasing Freedom -Virginia, supported me during my campaign. He's just 
5 a friend. 
6 
7 
8 
9 Q 
A 
Q 
A Okay. 
Totally unassociated. No militia connections or anything like that. 
Great. Do you remember how close --
That I'm aware of. I should say that I'm aware of, but I'm pretty sure. 
10 know him pretty well. I don't think so. 
11 Q Okay. Do you remember how close you got to the Capitol? 
12 A Very close. I was all the way up to the building. 
13 Q Okay. 
14 A Not on the --on the --how do you want me to talk about it? There's the 
15 pavilion side. I don't know east/west side, stuff like that. So wherever the inaugural --
16 Q The west. 
17 A --pavilion or whatever, that's where we spent most of our time, was kind of 
18 at the foot to the left of the inaugural pavilion thing. We were there for the longest 
19 period of time once we walked up to the Capitol. 
20 We didn't climb any walls or we didn't climb up anything. We didn't go up 
21 any --you know, we didn't wrestle any policemen, we didn't --you know, we got CS 
22 gassed like, I don't know, like 15 times probably. My buddy was in the port-a-potty the 
23 first time we got hit with the CS gas. It was not a fun experience for him, I've heard. 
24 But then we went around --like, if you're looking at the Capitol, we went around 
25 the left side and just walked right up onto the thing. We followed a crowd of people  79 
1 and went around the other side. 
2 And by the time we got there, there were --you know, and, again, I only know in 
3 retrospect that there were any barriers at all. And that's where I saw the other antifa 
4 guy. He was pulling down all the barriers. 
5 Let me take that back. He wasn't pulling them down; they were already all 
6 down, I think, somewhere else, and he was like bringing them over and setting them up in 
7 a certain place, like staging them. 
8 And so we went around the left side of the Capitol and went up onto the little 
9 steps. You know, I got as close as looking in one of the windows, but I didn't try and like 
10 break in. When I looked in the windows, nobody was trying to break into any of the 
11 windows that I was near. 
12 Q Okay. So let me ask then, with the atmosphere around you, you 
13 mentioned gas, there's a lot of things happening --
14 A Yeah. 
15 Q --did you take any of that as a sign that you were somewhere that you 
16 shouldn't be? 
17 A I would say, if I didn't have my background, I would say probably a lot of 
18 people would. But I do feel like God wanted me to see it eyewitness. I have been, I 
19 believe, at the three most important events and been an eyewitness to the three most 
20 important events in American history, going back to 9/11. I was within about a half a 
21 mile of the Pentagon when the Pentagon got hit. I went to New York and got into Lower 
22 Manhattan and went to Ground Zero on the 12th of September, the next day, and walked 
23 the entire debris field myself, my own eyes. Then I was at Lobby Day, January 20th of 
24 2020, because I was campaigning mostly and I needed signatures. That was the main 
25 reason I was there.  80 
1 And I think that, you know, 30,000 American citizens standing up for their rights 
2 regarding the Second Amendment is a pretty big deal. And I think that that was an 
3 important event. And then I think that being at the Capitol --I'm just not risk adverse 
4 because of my training and my background, and so I didn't --I never felt like I was in 
5 danger and I didn't know that we shouldn't be on the Capitol grounds. 
6 I had no idea. I never saw a sign. I never saw a barrier the whole time we were 
7 there that weren't like --once I got up to the Capitol building, I saw some. Like I said, 
8 this antifa guy --the only reason I say he was antifa is because he was wearing all black, 
9 he had a trench coat on and a Trump hat, and he was piling up all of the barriers in like a 
10 pile. 
11 And he came over to me and my friend and he goes, Hey, guys, you know, 
12 when --we need you to grab these and help us bash down the door. And we were like, 
13 Dude, we're not here for that. That's what we told him. We're not here for that. 
14 
15 
16 
17 Q 
A 
Q Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Speciale. I think 
Okay. Go ahead. 
BY has a question. 
I just wanted to ask, I know earlier you had put a number on the number of 
18 times that you had been affected by CS gas, or tried to. How many times do you think 
19 that you came in contact with that CS gas? 
20 
21 
22 A 
Q 
A I --honestly, it was --I was downwind, so it wasn't like direct on me. 
Was it 10 or more times? 
It was 10 or more times, yeah. It was 10 --way more than 10 times. But, 
23 again, we weren't really being directly --it wasn't directed at us; it was just downwind, 
24 right? 
25 Q Do you normally --do you take generally the police use of CS gas as an  81 
1 indication that they want people to leave the area? 
2 A We weren't anywhere near where they were using that CS gas. That CS gas 
3 we were back from where they were using it. We were catching it just because of the 
4 wind. Like, I didn't feel like we were --we were never directly targeted by CS gas, that I 
5 recall. 
6 Q Did you say that you were --you said that you were on the Capitol steps, 
7 correct, close to the Capitol? 
8 A I don't know whether it's the Capitol steps, but what you're --because 
9 there's steps all over the damn place. We went around the left side of the building and 
10 went up three or four steps onto the platform, right? And we stood back --other than 
11 when I first got there, I looked in the window, and then they hit us with CS gas and that's 
12 when we backed away. 
13 Q I guess I'm just going to ask the simple question. Did you not understand 
14 that police did not want you where you were? 
15 A We did. We backed away from the CS gas. When I was close to it, that 
16 first time when we went around that side and they see it --and I don't know if it was 
17 coming from them or actually the protester people. I don't know. But when it first 
18 came against us, we backed away. And we were joined by another guy that was a 
19 friend, and we all backed away and stayed out of the blast radius of the CS gas at that 
20 point. 
21 And again, just as an eyewitness, I never --I think, you know, me getting hit with 
22 CS gas, us getting hit with CS gas was mostly almost like accident. It wasn't like --we 
23 were never targeted with it. We were just downwind. 
24 
25 Okay. This is --if, 
spot for exhibit 9. -could you pull it up? you're done, this is probably a good  1 
2 Mr. Speciale. Is this the Russian thing? 
Yeah. Just in terms of context from where you were. So this is a 82 
3 video you talked to a Russian television --
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 Mr. Speciale. I've been looking all over for this thing. 
- Well, let's watch this short clip. 
[Video shown.] 
Mr. Speciale. I have seen that. I have seen that. 
One second, Mr. Speciale. BY-
Q Okay. So just let me walk through the questions again like we did with the 
11 last video. 
12 So that is you, correct? 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 It's me. A 
Q 
A 
Q Great. And you can see you're right next to the Capitol there --
Uh-huh. 
--right? 
So based on questions, did you get a sense from law enforcement at 
18 that point that you were somewhere where you shouldn't be? And the person behind 
19 you is banging on the window. 
20 A Okay. I --first of all, because I was speaking to people, okay, the reporter 
21 guys --I don't remember how I came into contact with them other than them just walking 
22 up and putting a microphone in my face. And I don't even remember their question. 
23 Maybe you guys got the question from the thing, I don't know. 
24 Again, I was just there as a witness. I wasn't there --I didn't encourage any of it. 
25 We didn't, you know --we just were --1 felt like I needed to see it with my own eyes what  1 was happening, guys. And, again, I'm not risk adverse. 
2 Q Okay. Let me ask the next question then. So it was a little hard to hear, 
3 admittedly, because there's Russian being translated over you. 
4 
5 A 
Q Uh-huh. 
But as far as I got it, it was, "It doesn't belong to them; it belongs to us. 
6 These people work for us." 
Yeah. 83 
7 
8 A 
Q So, first, just walk us through what --"it doesn't belong to them, it belongs to 
9 us." What is "it"? 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A The country. 
The country? Okay. 
The country. 
And what --and you're standing outside the Capitol, so when --
Right. The country. Again, I know that that is not maybe what it might be 
15 taken to be, but you know what --I'm talking about the country. I've always --I've 
16 always talked about the country as a whole. 
17 Now, granted, we're sitting in front of the Capitol building, so it doesn't belong to 
18 them, clearly, I guess, for the Russian audience, I'm trying to explain to them why this is 
19 happening, right? Not for an American audience, because clearly it was a Russian, you 
20 know, thing. 
21 So I was --and I think what I have remembered about that question --what I have 
22 remembered about that video, which I don't know if it's in the full length one or not, is, I 
23 said, "because we don't want to have a country like Russia." That's what I remember 
24 saying to him at some point, but I don't think they put that in their final edit. 
25 Q Okay. So --but you're pointing at the Capitol?  84 
Yeah. 
So do you think "it" --1 
2 
3 A 
Q 
A 1 get it, but I'm not --all I'm saying --I'm explaining what they're doing. We 
4 weren't doing that. I was --you know, like I said, it was a microphone, I spoke to the 
5 guys. It was directed at a Russian audience to try and put some context on potentially 
6 why all this is happening in the United States, and that's because the --you know, the 
7 Trump movement is about stopping foreign influence in our country. It's always been 
8 about that. It's always been about that. 
9 I know that that doesn't come out. He doesn't say that very articulately, but 
10 that's what's it's always been about. That's why he always was going after China, and 
11 that's why it was so surprising with the whole Russia false investigation because he 
12 doesn't like the Russians. 
13 
14 Q 
A Okay. So is "them," "it doesn't belong to them," who is "them"? 
The political elite, essentially. It doesn't belong to the political elite. It 
15 belongs to us. The country is for We the People, right? I mean, you guys are lawyers. 
16 You know that. 
17 That's really who we're talking to. In all of these speeches, it's all about an 
18 audience of We the People against the political elite that have become corrupted by, 
19 ultimately, the money and the power. 
20 
21 
22 
23 Q 
A 
Q 
A So in the context of where you are -­
Uh-huh. 
--did you have any thought of how these words would sound? 
I wanted them to go directly to Russia to help them understand that we are 
24 fighting against Russia. We are fighting against China. That is what --that is --again, if 
25 you go and you look at the facts, guys, you got to look deeper than just --you got to look  85 
1 at all the facts to build into a case. You got to look at what the Director of FBI just said 
2 about the threat of the Chinese. 
3 That's --I knew that long before the Director of FBI said that, and I've been talking 
4 about it for 2 or 3 years. So I'm talking about the threats to our country from outside. 
5 And many of these politicians have become --they're not --I just think that they're 
6 unwittingly --they're unwittingly facilitating the desires of these foreign countries 
7 without realizing it, because they're buying --you know, they're basically buying a lot of 
8 their bullshit narratives. 
9 Q So do you think that the people around you were there for the same reason 
10 as you? 
11 A Again, clearly, the people that were bashing in the windows and stuff were 
12 not there for the same reason I was there, James. 
13 
14 
15 Q 
A 
Q Yeah. 
Okay. 
Let's put aside --I'm not talking about the physical actions; I'm just talking 
16 about the reason they were there. 
17 A I would say that I strongly associate myself with everybody who is saddened. 
18 That's why I was there, because I think --honestly, I think it was important for me to see it 
19 because of my career field. It was, like, necessary almost to see it with my own eyes. 
20 You know, I --I can't say it any more than that, except to say that I don't think 
21 99.9 percent of the people who attended that event were there for violence. 
22 It was a very, very small number of agitators that agitated the crowd. The 
23 Senate report has come out and admitted that the first use of CS gas was by the Capitol 
24 Police. Now, don't get me wrong, I wasn't at the front; I don't know what the 
25 circumstances for that use of CS gas was. I'm not saying that they shouldn't have done  86 
1 that. I'm just saying that I think when you CS gas a whole bunch of Americans, especially 
2 when they're really, really super passionate about why they're there, they probably get 
3 angry. 
4 I did not get angry. I was not angry. I totally understood why they were CS 
5 gassing everybody, and that's why we backed away. Because, clearly, this is getting out 
6 of hand, right? 
7 Q Can I ask, actually --when did you decide to --so just for the record, did you 
8 go in the Capitol? 
9 
10 
11 A 
Q 
A No, absolutely not. 
Right. So when did you --when did you decide to back away? 
Well, we --I wouldn't even consider anything other than what we did was 
12 just to observe everything, right? So we were there as observers. I was there as an 
13 observer. And, you know, my expertise, I felt that it was necessary to get as close to the 
14 problem as possible so that I could speak authoritatively about it in the future. 
15 I would say that we left when everybody else did. When, you know, President 
16 Trump at the time said, Thanks, guys. You've made your point. Go home. And 
17 everybody did --
18 
19 Q Okay. 
A --at 4:17. At 4:17, we all --you know, very soon after that, we left the 
20 Capitol. And just to give you a little --
21 Q Sorry. I don't mean to speak over you, Mr. Speciale. I just want to keep, 
22 just for the record, just so the court reporter can know. You said that President Trump's 
23 speech is what signaled you to leave. 
24 
25 A Yeah. Correct. 
Q Sorry. Not a speech.  1 A I think, yeah. I think that that was like the end for it, you know what I 
2 mean? Like, that's the end. You know what I mean? Like, you're not --but let 
3 me --let me say this. Everybody left at that time. We --it was, like, everybody left. 
4 So I wouldn't --I don't want --I don't want it to be like, oh, because, you know, the 
5 President commanded us to leave, you know, it wasn't anything like that. It was just, 
6 like, everybody left at that point, right? I know I have heard that some other people 
7 stayed around for a while, but we left. 
8 
9 Q 
A Okay. 
The vast majority of people --my understanding is the vast majority of 
10 people left after President Trump said you've made your point, go home. 
11 Q Great. Thank you. So I know you've said you were aware other groups, 
12 like the Oath Keepers, you saw their insignia, Proud Boys. 
13 
14 A 
Q Yep, yep. 
Did you have any conversations in group chats or text messages or any 
15 conversations of significance with --
16 A None of any significance. None of any significance of any kind. There's 87 
17 a --there's a funny video --1 crack up about it, honestly. It's exactly --I believe I can use 
18 this as a case study in the future on social media narrative. 
19 When we left the rally in Freedom Plaza, when we left the rally in Freedom Plaza, 
20 I'm pretty sure they were Oath Keepers. I'm pretty sure. Like, two or three Oath 
21 Keeper guys in full kit are like talking to us and they're like, you know --I don't remember 
22 all the details of the conversation, but, like, are you going to the Capitol? I was like, 
23 yeah, we're going to the Capitol. 
24 And so we all walked down the street together, right? It's like three --three 
25 Oath Keeper guys, who I have no idea who these people are. And my friend and I went  88 
1 from the Freedom Plaza thing to the Capitol. 
2 And somehow somebody, just by happenstance, caught a video of me walking in 
3 front --but just so you guys know, I'm a chief warrant officer. I always walk in the front. 
4 I don't --you know, especially when there's like these three jackasses in full kit, I'm not 
5 going to have them leading the way for me. 
6 And we were just going in the same direction, and somebody got that clip and has 
7 gone out --and there's a group out there on Twitter. I just found out about them a 
8 couple months ago. There's a group out there called the Insurrection Hunters, right? 
9 And they've got, like, me, they got like the guys I was with and, obviously, giving 
10 everybody these funny names. They're all foreigners, by the way. Everybody that's in 
11 this Insurrection Hunters thing are all foreigners sowing disinformation. 
12 And one of the things they put on Twitter was --and the only reason I came across 
13 this, like I said, I don't watch Twitter, somebody else saw it and pointed me at it. So I 
14 went and checked it out and I fought it out with them a little bit, but --was, there's Tom 
15 Speciale. He's leading the Oath Keepers. 
16 I don't even know who those people are. Like, I have no idea. And at that time, 
17 we didn't know all the crazy stuff was going on at the Capitol. Like, we didn't know. 
18 We had no idea any of that was going on. So we just walked in the same direction. 
19 
20 Q 
A So let me ask you --
1 wanted to get that out there because I know --I know you wanted to find 
21 out about my relationship with the Oath Keepers or whatever, and I know that that 
22 video's out there, so I figured I'd tell you. 
23 Q Thank you. You preempted a couple of questions. So, more generally, 
24 besides your friend who you don't want to name --
25 A Uh-huh.  1 
2 Q 
A --did you go to the Capitol with anybody else? 
I was there with --another guy met us, another friend of mine met us, also 
3 not a member of Vets for Trump, not associated --he was supporting me during my 89 
4 campaign. Just an all-around good guy. You know, North Carolina hillbilly kind of guy. 
5 He's a veteran, like 4 or 5 years in the military. Not going to name him. 
6 Also, you know, just more of a Chasing Freedom -Virginia person than a Vets for 
7 Trump person, and in no way associated with any militias or anything like that. And he 
8 met us there. He met us at the Capitol. 
9 Q Okay. So Vets for Trump, after you and Mr. Macias speak, there was 
10 no Vets for Trump is organizing a group of people to go --
No. 
--to the Capitol? 
Not at all. 
Okay. Thank you. And I think you --11 
12 
13 
14 
15 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A In fact, all official activities was --as far as I knew, were over. Like, at the 
16 end of the rally over at Freedom Plaza, there were --we were just like on our own, kind of 
17 just going and doing our thing at that point. You know what I mean? 
18 Q No. And that's --in the spirit of completeness can you pull up 
19 exhibit 11, please? 
20 So I think these are some of the people you were mentioning earlier about 
21 Twitter. 
22 if you scroll down a little bit. 
23 Do you see the arrows pointing --
24 
25 A 
Q Yep. Yep. 
I believe that is you, but do you know --do you know those other people -- 1 
2 A Yeah, those --
Q --that are near you? So the black hat with the white beard? 
3 A Yeah, that --that looks like my law enforcement friend. It's a little fuzzy. 
4 don't remember what he was wearing, so I'm guessing. It looks like him. And the 
5 other guy in the middle is also the other friend, yeah. 
6 
7 Q So those are your two friends? Okay. 
A Yeah. Those are my two friends. In total, like I said, no association with 
8 Vets for Trump, no association with any militias, just people who love the country. 
Q Fair enough. 
can you pull up exhibit 12? 90 
9 
10 
11 I have a feeling, Mr. Speciale, you'll probably recognize this too then. The guy up 
12 front with the badge on and the scarf around his face, do you know who that is? 
13 
14 
15 A That looks like the same guy from a second ago. 
Q Yeah. 
A That --yeah. That has to be my --well, hold on. Let me see if I --let me 
16 see if I have any pictures of what he was wearing. Because that --
17 
18 
19 Q Well, if it's your friend who you don't want to name --
A The problem is is my friend has a beard, and I can't tell if that's him or not. 
Q So let me ask it this way. If it's not your friend who you don't want to 
20 name, do you know who it is? 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 badge? A No. 
Q Okay. That's good enough. 
A No idea. But he is wearing --I think it's him. 
Q If it is him and you don't want to name him, do you know why he has a  91 
1 A Yeah, because he was with me at the --he was with me at the rally in the 
2 Freedom Plaza, and to get in to like the back part of the Freedom rally, they gave him that 
3 badge. 
4 
5 
6 
7 Q 
A 
Q Great. 
That'd be the reason that he would have it. 
No. Totally understandable. 
And then my last question about these sort of Capitol pictures. When we looked 
8 at your speech on the 6th, you were wearing a Vets for Trump hoodie. 
9 if you want to go back to exhibit 11, sorry, quickly. And then zoom in on 
10 Mr. Speciale. 
11 So you seem to have added some layers and a hat and a backpack. Is there any 
12 reason that you changed following your rally? 
13 A No. No. I wasn't carrying anything. I didn't --like, I don't --I'm not a 
14 bear spray guy. I didn't have any firearms on me. I am guessing that that was my bag 
15 and stuff that I was just carrying in case I needed to put my coat somewhere, because I 
16 don't --or snacks or water or something like that. 
17 Q And take this question from someone who is without a military background, 
18 but it looks like camouflage or some sort of gear. Is that --it's just a --
19 
20 
21 
22 A 
Q 
A 
Q No, it's not. No. 
Okay. 
No. In fact, can you zoom out a little bit on that? I mean --
1 could find another picture of you in the attire. The real question about 
23 the attire is, do you remember --do you remember why --let me ask, Mr. Speciale, 
24 because it could be a very easy answer. 
25 Do you remember why you changed?  92 
1 A I had no --the only reason I put on that brown coat is because it was cold 
2 out and wet. 
Q Okay. 
A And, you know, that's the only reason. 
Q Okay. That's --
A Yeah, that's the only reason. 
Q All right. And then --3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 A And that's got to be my friend, because I can see what looks like a beard now 
9 on this picture. So if it's the same guy, then --
Q Yeah. Thank you very much. 
can you pull up exhibit 14? 10 
11 
12 So I'll give you a little preview of this, Mr. Speciale. This is Mr. Macias speaking 
13 on January 6th. It was not --it does not seem like a preplanned speech, but he's in front 
14 of the Capitol. The Capitol's in his background. There's a lot of people, you know, 
15 heading that direction, a lot of --
A Okay. 16 
17 
18 Q A lot of activity, let's say, as you can see in this little picture. 
So we're just going to play a little clip of it, but -- before you hit play --were 
19 you with Mr. Macias at this point? 
20 A That angle and stuff doesn't --I wasn't with him from the time we left the 
21 Freedom Plaza --
22 Q Okay. 
23 A --until --until --until after --I don't know if we shot video or shot any video 
24 there or not. I don't recall. 
25 Q Okay. Let's play a little bit of it and see if it helps.  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 A Doesn't look --like, this angle doesn't look familiar to me at all. 
[Video shown.] 
Thank you, 
BY-
Q Does that spur your recollection at all? 
A No. I wasn't there, I don't think, when he did that. 
Q Okay. Did you talk to him afterwards about him --
A Not about any speeches or anything he made. 
Q Okay. Do you know who --just in the three people we saw, did you 
10 recognize --
11 A Well, I recognized Tony and then Josh, but I don't recognize anybody --I 
12 didn't look to see if there was anybody else that I recognized. Nobody jumped out at 
13 me, no. 
14 
15 
16 Q 
A Do you know a Ty Ballinger --or Bollinger, I'm sorry, B-o-1-1-i-n-g-e-r? 
If you showed me his face, I might, but I don't know the name. 
Q Okay. can we pull exhibit 14 back up and go to 40 seconds on the 
17 speech? 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 Oh, right there is actually perfect. If we can go full screen, bottom left. 
A 
Q It's a blurry photo. I don't recognize him. 
if you hit play right there, it might unblur. We'll see. 
[Video shown.] 
Mr. Speciale. Yeah, I don't recognize him. 
BY-
Q That's okay. Do you know a Teddy Daniels? 
A No. 93  1 Q Okay. Do you know if --let me ask this then. Are there other Vets for 
2 Trump State organizations? 
3 
4 
5 A 
Q 
A I'm sorry. Stay what? 
Does Vets for Trump have State, like, affiliates? 
They're --they --Vets for Trump is a --pretends to probably be a lot bigger 
6 than it is. Okay? Sometimes a whole State organization might be two guys. I don't 
7 know --I know that there are some State coordinators and stuff like that, but I don't --I 
8 don't know much about them. 
9 
10 Q 
A Okay. 
And like I said, I just took over as the president like 6 weeks ago maybe. 
11 And we want to grow it into a bigger organization, but, you know, it's not been very 
12 professionally managed. That's why they're bringing me in as the president to try and 
13 fix them a little bit. 
14 Q Understood. So then you wouldn't know if he was, at that time when 
15 Macias was speaking, but --
16 A No. Even if I talked to him --even if I talked to him at some point, I 
17 wouldn't necessarily know who he was. 94 
18 Q Okay. Fair enough. Now, in terms of what Mr. Macias was saying, he calls 
19 Vice President Pence a Benedict Arnold, and then he calls on President Trump to invoke 
20 the Insurrection Act. 
21 
22 A 
Q Right. 
And sort of implies that we would be here for President Trump --Vets for 
23 Trump, the organization, would be here if President Trump did that. 
24 Is that something that the organization endorsed? 
25 A Not me. Not ever. I think that a lot of it is, again, free speech, you know,  95 
1 not realizing the danger that speech can have. I don't think it's anything more than that, 
2 but no. 
3 I can say that, right now, as long as I'm the president, the organization will never 
4 support anything like that. I think in Josh's --I don't want to say in his defense because I 
5 don't --like, I don't like the idea of people calling our elected officials Benedict Arnolds 
6 and things like that, because I know what kind of --I know what that means really. It's 
7 not just like from the history book. It means stuff. And that's why I don't say those 
8 kinds of things, and that's why I stay out of the election stuff. And I just say I think that 
9 we need to look at, because I'm not an expert in it. 
10 But, you know, the Insurrection Act, you know, I remember people talking about 
11 it. I didn't give it really much attention, but, again, I just think it's just him running his 
12 mouth. 
13 
14 Q 
A Okay. 
Maybe hopefully --you know, maybe hopefully, guys, but the truth of the 
15 matter is, you know, it's just somebody, you know, talking out of their butt basically. 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 Q I don't want you to speak for Mr. Macias, but thank you for the answer. 
You mentioned you met back up with him afterwards. 
A 
Q 
A Yep. 
Do you remember where you went? 
We were --we were on the other --like, from the --we had gone around the 
21 left side up on that little raised area. When we left in that parking area or walking area 
22 or sidewalk area, the big wide one right there, that's where I saw Josh again and Tony. 
23 And it looks like it's in that same vicinity maybe, I don't know. But by the time we got 
24 there, I don't recall that many people being on the, you know --being on those back 
25 stairs.  1 Q 
2 anywhere? 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A And do you remember where you went? Did you go with Josh Macias 
I don't think so. No, I don't think so. We went home. 
Okay. Do you have contact information for Mr. Macias? 
I do. 
How about for his lawyers? 
No. 
Would you be willing to share Mr. Macias's contact information with us? 
I don't see why not, but I will --what I'll do is, is I will get his legal --his 96 
10 lawyer's emails and his email and I'll put it together on one thing and send it over to you 
11 guys. 
12 Q Very much appreciate that. Thank you. 
13 And there's only a couple more questions before we get out of here, and I 
14 really --again, we appreciate --
15 A Well, I don't --I don't want to get out of here yet, guys. I really think you 
16 need to hear some of the stuff. If you would please --you know, I have been more than 
17 happy to try and help our country in any way I can, even talking to you guys when people 
18 said not to, but I would really like to have like a couple of minutes of your time so that I 
19 can put some additional granularity on the threat we're really facing as a country, 
20 because I think that it will inform --you guys are in --
21 Q Mr. Speciale, I will give you that --one second. I will give you that. I was 
22 just saying I have a couple more questions before we get to it. 
23 
24 
25 A Okay. Go ahead. 
Q Yeah. I was just trying to give you a little heads up. 
So what do you think should happen to people who stormed the Capitol? I'm  97 
1 talking about --not --let's separate --you were outside --people who were --the guy 
2 banging on the window and people who went in. 
3 A Uh-huh, yeah. Whew. There's really no question --I've said it from the 
4 very beginning, criminal activity has to be prosecuted. If it's criminal, it has to be 
5 prosecuted. My hope is that there will be mitigating circumstances and people will 
6 begin to try to understand the passions and the frustrations and the anger that's gripping 
7 the country right now, and that we're in a cultural revolution. But I believe anybody 
8 that committed a criminal act --a willful, criminal act, you know, you have to go through 
9 the legal system. If we don't have the rule of law in this country, we don't have a 
10 country. 
11 It's --what separates America from every other country in the world is that our 
12 government, every one of our government officials, even the most highly decorated 
13 military, even the most powerful political people, are held to the rule of law. 
14 And that's part of our problem, is, is there's a lot of lack of confidence in our 
15 country that everybody gets the same justice, but I believe anybody who committed a 
16 crime needs to go through the legal system. Now, I think that you guys are in a position 
17 to help people understand that we've got to do better as a country so that we can avoid 
18 these problems completely. 
19 
20 Q I thank you for that answer. 
And then in terms of --I know you've written about this and you speak about 
21 domestic terrorism and the threat of domestic terrorism. Would you say --
22 
23 A 
Q Correct. 
--that people who beat police on that day, on the 6th, fall into some sort of 
24 category like that? 
25 A No, I don't. And I've spent a lot of time --I've spent a lot of time studying  98 
1 it, and I have spent the last 15 years working terrorism, and I've spent a great deal of my 
2 own time studying the problems, the domestic violence problems we have. That's why 
3 they made me the senior collection strategist for domestic terrorism in the United States. 
4 You know how many of those there are in the U.S. Government? One. I was it. 
5 It wasn't domestic terrorism. Because as lawyers, I know you guys know this, 
6 you probably can't say it on record, but the truth of the matter is that violence in the 
7 United States, even carried out for political purposes, is violence. Because we live in a 
8 free society, we cannot have, like, statutes that prevent people from speaking. We 
9 cannot have statutes that allow the government to intrude on peoples' privacy just 
10 because you don't like what they say or what they think, because that's really what this is 
11 about. 
12 This whole conversation --and if you give me a chance, I will help you understand 
13 it in great detail. This whole conversation is about thought crime. It's about trying to 
14 prosecute somebody for what they think. 
15 Now, when they go and act on what they think, it can become a crime. And not 
16 just a violent crime; it can be any kind of crime. Most people that would fall into the 
17 category of a domestic extremist or domestic terrorist are committing other crimes 
18 already. We don't need new laws to govern this. The laws already exist. If you 
19 assault a police officer, you get punished. 
20 
21 Q 
A Let me just ask then, does antifa, would you call them domestic terrorists? 
Oh, my gosh. Such a great question. Okay? such a great 
22 question, and I can answer this in a way that this will blow your mind. I have stood up 
23 two people that are strong patriots who say that antifa is a terrorist organization, and 
24 what I tell them is this: You can't call antifa a terrorist organization that have problems 
25 with criminal justice system in the United States, regardless of their behavior, if you're  99 
1 not going to call the patriots terrorists. You can't just pick and choose. 
2 We either live in a free society or we do not. And we have the rule of law which 
3 is used to protect ourselves as a country so that we don't allow our free speech to 
4 become --our free speech to turn into a tyranny of force, right? We cannot allow that 
5 to happen, and it can't happen from the left and it can't happen from the right. We 
6 have to be fair in our legal system about what we're going to call things. 
7 The FBI calls antifa --or the crimes that occurred --and I hope people understand 
8 this on a regular basis --the FBI calls the bombings --not bombings. Not bombings. 
9 Sorry. The antifa didn't do bombs. The burnings, the looting, all that stuff, it is legally 
10 criminally called opportunistic crime. Okay? 
11 If you could find somebody that had a plan to loot the target, that would be in a 
12 different crime. But if somebody throws a rock through the window and everybody 
13 goes inside and steals tennis shoes, it's not domestic terror; it's just assholes stealing 
14 shoes. 
15 And --so we've got to treat both groups the same way. We can't treat --now, 
16 we do have a different context with regard to the Capitol building because it was around 
17 a political event, and I think you can make the argument that there were people who 
18 planned to disrupt the proper functioning of the government. And I can't think of the 
19 crime, but the proper functioning of the government. I think if you can prove that, you 
20 need to prosecute them for that, because that's a crime. 
21 But you can't just go, anybody that speaks out against us is a domestic terrorism, 
22 and those people over there, that's social justice. You can't do that. It's got to be fair 
23 for both. That --that rhetoric that is seized in our political discourse in the country is 
24 what is ripping us apart, and there isn't anybody out there who's helping people 
25 understand this.  100 
1 You guys are in a position to help the American people understand this, and we 
2 need it because it's the only thing that's going to protect us with this social media world 
3 we're living in. 
4 Q Thank you for that thoughtful answer, Mr. Speciale. 
5 So I heard you go back to January 6th and how you mentioned some people were 
6 possibly, in your words, trying to stop the functioning of government or the transfer of 
7 power, however you want to say it --
8 
9 
10 
11 A 
Q I don't know that --
Hold on. Let me finish. That's why I said possibly. 
So in your view, then, who is agitating the crowd? 
A I think --like, I saw the Ray Epps' videos --and, again, you guys, I don't know 
12 who this guy is. I don't buy into the confidential HUMINT source crap, I don't know. 
13 But I think that somebody like Ray Epps, the stuff he was saying, that's an agitator. 
14 That's somebody that was --literally had a plan in mind of motivating people to do 
15 that, you know. And I say that comparing that to some of the things that I said 
16 and --what I said. 
17 Q So let me just ask then very specifically. You can --you would 
18 separate --you categorize agitators as people with a preplan --
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A Correct. 
--versus necessarily people who rhetoric, speech, heat of the moment? 
Correct. Correct. 
And that you believe that there is a --one second. 
Go ahead. 
You believe there was a group of people who preplanned to agitate? 
I don't know that, so I can't say I believe it, okay?  1 
2 Q 
A Okay. 
I don't --I try to avoid saying things I don't know for a fact, but it seems to 
3 me that somebody like that, saying those things in so many different places, had an 101 
4 agenda. And I don't know --you know, I saw the whole thing on the Bullet or whatever, 
5 you know what I mean? It's pretty interesting, it's pretty compelling. Only you guys 
6 
7 can get at the solution of that. 
But people don't --look, everybody on here, people don't think it can 
8 happen here. They think that it's always going to be this way. If you study human 
9 history, everything ends. We have to be on guard because it can end tomorrow. It 
10 can. And I am very afraid that we don't have a fulsome conversation about this. And 
11 I've said it, Ashli Babbitt is the equivalent of Attucks Crispus, the Black slave or nonslave 
12 that was shot in 1770. 
13 If you --the grievance grows over the course of years if you don't solve the 
14 grievance. We have to get at the real grievances so that we don't continue to come 
15 apart like at our seams. And I believe that if we don't fix it, we've got about 5 years. 
16 And you're going to see something worse than January 6th if you don't solve the 
17 grievances. 
18 Q Thank you. Last question before I'm done. In terms of agitation, you 
19 mentioned if President Trump had marched, you don't believe anybody would've gone in 
20 the Capitol. 
21 Why do you assign so much power to President Trump? 
22 
23 A 
Q Wait. Say the question one more time. 
Sure. Earlier in our discussion when we were talking about President 
24 Trump's speech, you said that if he had marched along with the people or if he had gone 
25 to the Capitol, you don't think anybody would've entered or anybody would have  102 
1 stormed the Capitol, however, you want to phrase it, you don't think the rest of the 
2 events would have played out. 
3 Why do you assign so much power to President Trump? 
4 A Because --I say that because the problem was, is there was no leadership at 
5 the front of the crowd. That's one of my biggest regrets, is that I got there late. 
6 
7 
8 
9 Q So if President Trump would have been the leader, he could've stopped --
A 
Q 
A He could've stopped it. I don't think President Trump -­
Do you think --
--would've stood by and watched people attacking police officers. I know I 
10 wouldn't have. I know everybody I know wouldn't have. You think I'm going to stand 
11 there with one of my best friends who's a law enforcement guy and we're going to watch 
12 some people beat up policemen? There's no way. 
13 There was no leadership at the front of the --of the rally, okay? And so you had 
14 nobody there that had any power to stop anything. And I'm telling you right now, guys, 
15 that's one of the reasons that I think God put me there. I saw a riot on the 5th starting. 
16 I stopped it on the 5th. I get there late on the 6th. 
17 If I had been there, would I have been able to stop it? It's one of my big --it's 
18 one of my singular regrets in my life. 
19 Q Do you assign any fault to former President Trump for speaking as he did and 
20 then not going to the Capitol? 
21 A Actually, I kind of do. I do kind of --for him saying what he said and 
22 motivating the crowd and the crowd is with him, you know what I mean? They're there 
23 for him and for him to say he's going to go and then he doesn't go. You know, 
24 clearly --you guys --you guys probably don't think this way, but I do. I said it when I 
25 talked about this before.  103 
1 If I had said that on that stage, you better believe I'd been walking right down the 
2 street, surrounded by my Secret Service guys, and I'd have gone straight to the Capitol 
3 and I wouldn't have allowed that to happen, okay? But he didn't, and I think that the 
4 lack of leadership --and, you know, the other thing that I have said is Enrique, the leader 
5 of the Proud Boys, I talked to him after the event, and he has said the same thing I've 
6 said, that he wasn't there to provide any leadership. So they just did stuff without 
7 leadership. 
8 And, you know, it is, it's a huge regret I have that I wasn't there, because I believe 
9 that, you know, I could've --you know, by the time I did get there, everything was already 
10 going on, you know. I mean, there was no stopping it at that point. There were 
11 hundreds of people doing stuff. So at that point I'm just a witness, and I had no 
12 influence over what was going to happen. 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 Okay. Do any other staff have questions before we wrap up? 
Mr. Speciale. You're not going to give me any time, are you, 
No, I am. Hearing none, I'll give you --
Mr. Speciale. 
to think about, okay? I would like to --I would like to give you guys at least some things 
And I would be more than happy to come in and help you with 
18 this. 
19 I have spent the last --I've been a counterterrorism guy for almost 15 years, but 
20 I've been studying terrorism, revolutions, and insurrections going back to when I was in 
21 my teens. I know I look reasonably young, but I am 53 years old. I am a professional 
22 HUMINT intelligence collection officer. I am a trained psychological operation specialist. 
23 I wrote --when I left NCTC, I wrote a SO-page report on the threats to our country, 
24 and I will just briefly say this. Because I don't want --if you don't want to be on 
25 here --bottom line is this: I'm just going to highlight my key findings. I wrote this just  104 
1 like I would if I was writing a domestic terrorism intelligence analysis piece if for another 
2 country, except I'm doing it on our country, our country. I shouldn't have to write this. 
3 I'm sorry. I'm getting a little --
4 Okay. I was going to say you could submit this to the committee if 
5 you would like it to be part of the record. Just as a note. 
6 Mr. Speciale. I will absolutely submit it. I will absolutely submit it to the 
7 committee, and you reminded me of something. They already have it. I took this into 
8 the HPSCI, the classified version into the HPSCI before it was published. They already 
9 have it. 
10 So key findings are, the FBI claims --and this is a lot about the FBI because that's 
11 the authoritative voice in the world for us. The FBI claims that international and 
12 domestic terrorism are the FBl's number one priority, and that domestic terrorism, 
13 specifically lone actor White supremist and militia extremist, pose a greater threat today 
14 than do international terrorist organizations. 
15 The FBI claims domestic terrorism is metastasizing and is not going away anytime 
16 soon. All available data refutes this claim. Literally, everything in the data refutes this. 
17 There is a report that you need to get into the record. It is called the National 
18 Counterterrorism Center, Domestic Terrorism Conference of 2020. This report was 
19 published on September of 2020. 
20 The overarching element of that report was this: They've already had these 
21 conversations, guys. All of these conversations have already been had. The FBl's 
22 recommendation was they wanted a domestic terrorism Federal statute, basically so they 
23 could get around the First Amendment of the Constitution. 
24 Now, what they didn't know when I showed up was I already knew about the 
25 Church Committee. The Church Committee in 1975, basically went and corrected the  105 
1 FBl's behavior with regard to Communists, the KKK, Martin Luther King, and all these 
2 things. Right? 
3 So the problem is --remember we were talking about government transparency, 
4 the government --a lot of people feel like the government is against them? It's this kind 
5 of stuff that is leading to that. 
6 The FBI uses a handling caveat, law-enforcement sensitive. Go read the DNl's 
7 report on overclassification. She just came out publicly and said --this is the 
8 DNI --basically a year after I told them this, because they had to prepub review this. 
9 The DNI is saying in the last couple weeks that the lack of transparency from the Federal 
10 Government is causing conspiracy theories, extremism, and basically a distrust of the U.S. 
11 Government. 
12 Law-enforcement sensitive is not classified. It's a handling caveat. It just 
13 means don't leave it laying around. It's not classified information. Okay? But they 
14 redacted 15 percent of my report because it was law-enforcement sensitive. 
15 Now, there's a regulation that governs the classification of information. You can 
16 only classify information if it is national security related. It cannot be classified unless 
17 it's national security related, but the FBI is using law enforcement sensitive to keep 
18 relevant information about real threats away from the American people. Now, in some 
19 cases, investigatively for good reason, but a lot of it is not. 
20 So can I take your point, Mr. Speciale, about summary transparency? 
21 Mr. Speciale. Transparency, but if you want to know the kind of stuff that is 
22 causing this, okay, go look at the leaked DHS report from 2009 on veterans and extremist 
23 organizations. DHS leaked the document 2009. 
24 I'm going to quote --I'm going to read what they've approved me to say. They 
25 redacted a bunch of it, even though it was out on the Ethernet, right?  106 
1 This assessment could very easily have been stated this way: Many Americans 
2 who believe in the U.S. Constitution will not take kindly to threats to the U.S. 
3 Constitution. Supposedly, those people who believe in the constitutional right to bear 
4 arms, as written in the Constitution, and who have served the country in the military, 
5 pose a threat to America and are probably racist. 
6 That's really what they published. That --when that leaked, this is like evidence 
7 to a lot of people. This is evidence that the Federal Government is working against 
8 them, and I don't believe that. I believe exactly what the DHS said. We shouldn't have 
9 said it that way, it was misworded, whatever. But for that to have been published, it 
10 should've never happened.  107 
1 
All right. Mr. Speciale, before you continue, I want to be fair to our 
4 court reporters and to --we also have other things. So I think --
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 Mr. Speciale. I understand. 
- Let me give you a couple -­
Mr. Speciale. Let me --let me just --
- --2 minutes to summarize your point. I don't --
Mr. Speciale. Let me just finish with this. Let me --I will submit this for 
10 your --for the record, okay. 
12 Mr. Speciale. I'll make three recommendations. Please go read my report, 
13 -· I will send you guys personal --how many copies do you want? I'll send you 
14 personal copies. How many copies you need? 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 If you submit it through the link we gave you. 
Mr. Speciale. Okay. It's not out. I'll send you --
We'll talk --we'll talk about it afterward. 
Mr. Speciale. Okay. 
Yeah. 
Mr. Speciale. There are three recommendations that I made. True faith and 
21 allegiance to the U.S. Constitution. Our political leaders and every member of DHS and 
22 the FBI have sworn oaths to uphold the Constitution. If they just accepted that the 
23 Constitution protects all speech, even speech we don't like, and that law-abiding citizens 
24 should not be worried about gun confiscation, we would have no problems. Right? 
25 That is what is giving rise to all the extremism in the country, is that they feel like they  108 
1 can't speak their minds and they want to take their guns. I know those things are not 
2 totally true, but there's a lot of people out there who believe it. 
3 We do not have a domestic terrorism problem in the United States, nor a White 
4 supremacy problem. We have a mental health problem. Seven thousand homicides 
5 every year occur in the United States, all in 17 inner city neighborhoods. Okay? But 
6 we have 1.4 million attempted suicides, and virtually every mass violence shooter has 
7 been anxiety, depression, suicidal ideation. But the FBI can't talk about that because 
8 they can't prosecute people if they do. 
9 Finally, as we've already articulated, government transparency. Okay? You 
10 know --
11 Thank you. 
12 
13 
14 Mr. Speciale. --I appreciate you guys doing what you're doing. I really do. 
We appreciate your willingness to talk to us. 
Mr. Speciale. You got some feelings --you got some feelings out of me I haven't 
15 really been able to express. We need to be afraid, because if we don't correct, I'm afraid 
16 of bloody day days ahead. And I am really afraid of that because I have seen it and 
17 watched it happen all over the world. And I'm doing --that's why I'm publishing this. 
18 It's why I'm talking to you, because we can stop it if we do those three things. True faith 
19 and allegiance to the U.S. Constitution, mental health, and government transparency. 
20 And all of these conspiracies will go away. 
21 It'll do away with people like the QAnon people and all that, but they've got to 
22 have faith in their government that they are doing the right thing. And only you guys 
23 can help all of the politicians understand that. And if you want me to, I will come and 
24 publicly say this, and I think it needs to be public. It shouldn't be here. It should be on 
25 C-SPAN.  1 
2 Let me say this --
Well, thank you, Mr. Speciale. I will leave the --at this point, I'm 109 
3 going to ask that the record be adjourned or --sorry, put into recess, because I think, in 
4 case you want to come back and speak to us, we can leave it open. It sounds like you 
5 might want to. 
6 Is that okay with you, Mr. Speciale? 
7 Mr. Speciale. I would very much like to, and I would very much like to --
8 - So that's the posture we do. It's in recess. It's not formally closed. 
9 But for now, we will go off the record at 5:05 p.m. 
10 [Whereupon, at 5:05 p.m., the interview was recessed, subject to the call of the 
11 chair.]  1 
2 
3 Certificate of Deponent/Interviewee 
4 I have read the foregoing __ pages, which contain the correct transcript of the 
5 answers made by me to the questions therein recorded. 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 Witness Name 
Date 110 