From: Eastman, John 
Sent: Wednesday, January 06, 2021 4:45 PM MST 
To: Jacob, Gregory F. EOP/OVP <Gregory.F.Jacob@ovp.eop.gov> 
Subject: RE: [EXTERNAL] Pennsylvania letter 
He's been so advised, as you know because you were on the phone when I did it. I should not discuss other conversations 
that I may or may not have had privately on that score with someone who is a client. But you know him -once he gets 
something in his head, it is hard to get him to change course. 
When this is over, we should have a good bottle of wine over a nice dinner someplace. 
John 
From: Jacob, Gregory F. EOP/OVP <Gregory.F.Jacob@ovp.eop.gov> 
Sent: Wednesday, January 6, 2021 4:29 PM 
To: Eastman, John <jeastman@chapman.edu> 
Subject: Re: [EXTERNAL] Pennsylvania letter 
John, 
Did you advise the President that in your professional judgment the Vice President DOES NOT have the power to decide things 
unilaterally? Because that was pushed publicly, repeatedly, by the President and by his surrogates this week. And without apparent 
legal correction. 
I acknowledge that the final proposal as to actual actions to be taken by the Vice President in violation of the ECA that was retreated 
to last night was more modest. But the legal theory is not. And it does not appear that the President ever got the memo. 
Respectfully, 
Greg 
Sent from my iPhone 
On Jan 6, 2021, at 6:09 PM, Eastman, John <jeastman@chapman.edu > wrote: 
Greg, 
I appreciate tamping down the rhetoric. I will respond in kind. 
With all due respect, the VP's statement today claimed the most aggressive position that had been discussed 
and rejected. "Some believe that as Vice President, I should be able to accept or reject electoral votes 
unilaterally." But we had given a much more limited option, merely to adjourn to allow state legislatures to 
continue their work. I remain of the view not only would that have been the most prudent course as it would have 
allowed for the opportunity for this thing to be heard out, but also had a fair chance of being approved (or at least 
not enjoined) by the Courts. 
Alas. 
John 
From: Jacob, Gregory F. EOP/OVP <Gregory.F.Jacob@ovp.eop.gov > 
Sent: Wednesday, January 6, 2021 1 :05 PM 
To: Eastman, John <jeastman@chapman.edu > 
Subject: Re: [EXTERNAL] Pennsylvania letter 
I do apologize for that particular language, which was unbecoming of me, and reflective of a man whose wife and three 
young children are currently glued to news reports as I am moved about to locations where we will be safe from people, 
"mostly peaceful" as CNN might say, who believed with all their hearts the theory they were sold about the powers that 
could legitimately be exercised at the Capitol on this day. Please forgive me for that. 
But the advice provided has, whether intended to or not, functioned as a serpent in the ear of the President of the United 
States, the most powerful office in the entire world. And here we are. 
For the record, we were in the middle of an open, widely televised debate that was airing every single point that you 
gave members of Congress to make when all of this went down and we had to suspend. 
Chapman005442  I am not for a moment suggesting that you intended this result. But we were in fact giving you precisely the transparent 
debate that you suggest we were not. It was then up to you and the legal team to arm members with a case at least 
sufficient to convince a Senate that our own party controls. I'm not hearing that case at the moment, which I was 
anticipating with great interest (having previously reviewed many of the underlying filed materials), because the Senate 
floor has been abandoned. 
Respectfully, it was gravely, gravely irresponsible for you to entice the President with an academic theory that had no 
legal viability, and that you well know we would lose before any judge who heard and decided the case. And if the courts 
declined to hear it, I suppose it could only be decided in the streets. The knowing amplification of that theory through 
numerous surrogates, whipping large numbers of people into a frenzy over something with no chance of ever attaining 
legal force through actual process of law, has led us to where we are. 
I do not begrudge academics debating the most far-flung theories. I love doing it myself, and I view the ferment of ideas 
as a good and helpful thing. But advising the President of the United States, in an incredibly constitutionally fraught 
moment, requires a seriousness of purpose, an understanding of the difference between abstract theory and legal reality, 
and an appreciation of the power of both the office and the bully pulpit that, in my judgment, was entirely absent here. 
I'll say no more. And perhaps at some future Federalist Society Convention, we can more fully engage in the academic 
debate. 
God bless. 
Sent from my iPhone 
On Jan 6, 2021, at 2:25 PM, Eastman, John <jeastman@chapman.edu > wrote: 
My "bullshit" -seriously? You think you can't adjourn the session because the ECA says no 
adjournment, while the compelling evidence that the election was stolen continues to build and is 
already overwhelming. The "siege" is because YOU and your boss did not do what was necessary to 
allow this to be aired in a public way so the American people can see for themselves what happened. 
From: Jacob, Gregory F. EOP/OVP <Gregory.F.Jacob@ovp.eop.gov > 
Sent: Wednesday, January 6, 2021 12:14 PM 
To: Eastman, John <jeastman@chapman.edu > 
Subject: Re: [EXTERNAL] Pennsylvania letter 
John, very respectfully, I just don't in the end believe that there is a single Justice on the United States 
Supreme Court, or a single judge on any of our Courts of Appeals, who is as "broad minded" as you when it 
comes to the irrelevance of statutes enacted by the United States Congress, and followed without exception 
for more than 130 years. They cannot be set aside except when in direct conflict with the Constitution that 
our revered Framers handed us. And very respectfully, I don't think that a single one of those Framers 
would agree with your position either. Certainly, Judge Luttig has made clear he does not. And there is no 
reasonable argument that the Constitution directs or empowers the Vice President to set a procedure 
followed for 130 years before it has even been resorted to. 
Lincoln suspended the writ when the body entrusted with that authority was out of session, and submitted it 
to them as soon as it returned. I understand your argument that several state legislatures were out of 
session. But the role for state legislatures has for our entire history ended at the time that electoral 
certificates are submitted to Congress. Congress has debated submissions, including competing 
submissions. It has never once referred them out to state legislatures to decide. 
I respect your heart here. I share your concerns about what Democrats will do once in power. I want 
election integrity fixed. But I have run down every legal trail placed before me to its conclusion, and I 
respectfully conclude that as a legal framework, it is a results oriented position that you would never support 
if attempted by the opposition, and essentially entirely made up. 
And thanks to your bullshit, we are now under siege. 
Sent from my iPhone 
On Jan 6, 2021, at 1 :33 PM, Eastman, John <jeastman@chapman.edu > wrote: 
I'm sorry Greg, but this is small minded. You're sticking with minor procedural statutes while the 
Constitution is being shredded. I gave you the Lincoln example yesterday. Here's another. In 
Chapman005443  the situation room at the White House during the first Iraq war, the Sec of Interior said the law 
required an environmental impact assessment before the President could order bombing of the 
Iraq oil fields. Technically true. But nonsense. Luckily, Bush got statesmanship advice and 
ignored that statutory requirement. 
Dr. John C. Eastman 
Chapman University School of Law 
(877) 855-3330 x2 
(Sent from my mobile device. Please excuse any typos or brevity.) 
On Jan 6, 2021, at 10:44 AM, Jacob, Gregory F. EOP/OVP <Gregory.F.Jacob@ovp.eop.gov > 
wrote: 
External Message 
Thanks, John. Will call. 
Is it unconstitutional for the ECA to direct that the members should do objections, at 
least in the first instance? Would the constitutional imperative you argue for not kick 
in only after that statutorily required mechanism has been applied, and failed to 
uphold the Constitution? 
Sent from my iPhone 
On Jan 5, 2021, at 9:32 PM, Eastman, John 
<jeastman@chapman.edu > wrote: 
Greg, 
Good talk earlier tonight. 
Major new development attached. This is huge, as it now looks like 
PA Legislature will vote to recertify its electors if Vice President 
Pence implements the plan we discussed. 
Give me a call once you've had your sit-down with the VP and let 
me know where we stand. 
Again, thank you. 
John 
<US Republican Leadership Letter.pdf> 
NOTE: This email originated from outside Chapman's network. Do not click links or open 
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know content is safe. 
Chapman005444 