Message (Digitally Signed) 
From: 
Sent: 
To: 
CC: 
Subject: (U//FOUO) Disruptions to DC Metro Area 01/06/2021 (Online Tip) 
Attachments: 697897 _WF _FD71a.pdf; image.jpg; image.jpg; image.jpg; smime.p7s 
Good Evening PIOC, 
Please see the attached Guardian regarding a group possibly planning disruptions in DC on January 6, 2021. 
Please let me know if you have any questions. 
U//FOUO On 12/26/2020 at 3:11AM EST, an anonymous tipster, Internet Protocol (IP) address 
which resolves to Mukilteo, WA submitted an online tip the FBI 
National Threat Operations Center (NTOC) via tips.fbi.gov to report "thedonald.win" user "Kristen" for the 
encouragement/incitement to block/impede implied "major" roadways on January 6, 2021 via statement, 
"attention to all Patriots in possession of junk vehicles and towing vehicle capacity: CLOG THE ARTERIES 
OF OUR CAPITOL WITH ALL THE JUNKERS YOU CAN MUSTER!!! Build the blockade with parked, 
disabled junk vehicles by the hundreds. Get all your friends and families to donate their old junk vehicles!! The 
bigger, the older, the rustier & heavier the better! Stuff them with rotting deer carcasses, garbage, biohazardous 
materials, whatever...Drive em or tow 'em into the appropriate arties, then park 'em blockade-style. Finally, 
after disabling the engines, abandon them and join the march" 
(U) Submitted Text: 
They plan to meet at a bridge in VA and they will all be armed. They think that they will have a large enough 
group to march into DC armed and will outnumber the police so they can't be stopped. They believe that since 
the election was "stolen" that it's their constitutional right to overtake the government and during this coup no 
US laws apply. Another group of proud boys will be in DC already and are planning on blocking the roads with 
their cars in order to stop traffic. Their plan is to literally kill people. Please please take this tip seriously and 
investigate further. Especially after what happened in Nashville today, this could be a test run. Please look into 
this. I have listed links to websites above in which the proud boys detail their plans. Many have already bought 
plane tickets. I think they will have large numbers and every single one of them is expecting and eager to use 
their weapons 
(U) Violation Questions 
A.) What type of attack are you reporting? 
Attempted coup/terrorist attack on Jan 6th 
B.) What makes you believe the attack will occur? How do you know the attack will occur? 
The proud boys have detailed their plans on multiple websites such as https://thedonald.win/ 
p/11R4q2aptJ/trump-tweet-daddy-says-be-in-dc-/c/ and they are planning to overtake the White House. Their 
plans are to meet in Virginia in a large group. Everyone is will be armed. I am unable to access this link 
https://matrix.donaldsarmy.us/ I think there's more information in there if you can access 
C.) Is the attack being organized by a group or individual? Are there any known associates?  Donald Trump -Proud Boys believe that Trump called them to action by telling them to go to DC on Jan 6th 
and act "wild". The group that is organizing the attack is the Proud Boys terrorist group. 
D.) Does this person or group have access to firearms, explosives, or any other chemical? If so, what weapons 
are involved? 
Yes they are all planning on marching into DC armed in a large group and they say that no laws will apply to 
them because the constitution says they can overtake the government ( or something like that?) they plan to 
incite violence 
E.) Do you know the plan of attack(when, where, has there been any rehearsals of the attack)? 
January 6, 2021 and they plan to stay until inauguration 
Respectfully, 
Special Agent I Washington Field Office 
United States Secret Service 
Sent from my iPhone 