Clark, Jeffrey (ENRD) 
From: Clark, Jeffrey (ENRD) 
Sent: Monday, December 28, 2020 4:40 PM 
To: 
Subject: Rosen, Jeffrey A. (ODAG); Donoghue, Richard (ODAG) 
Two Urgent Action Items 
Attachments: Draft Letter JBC 12 28 20.docx 
Jeff and Rich: 
(1) I would like to have your authorization to get a classified briefing tomorrow from ODNI led by DNI 
Radcliffe on foreign election interference issues. I can then assess how that relates to activating the IEEPA 
and 2018 EO powers on such matters (now twice renewed by the President). If you had not seen it, white 
hat hackers have evidence (in the public domain) that a Dominion machine accessed the Internet through a 
smart thermostat with a net connection trail leading back to China. ODNI may have additional classified 
evidence. 
(2) Attached is a draft letter concerning the broader topic of election irregularities of any kind. The concept 
is to send it to the Governor, Speaker, and President pro temp of each relevant state to indicate that in light 
of time urgency and sworn evidence of election irregularities presented to courts and to legislative 
committees, the legislatures thereof should each assemble and make a decision about elector appointment 
in light of their deliberations. I set it up for signature by the three of us. I think we should get it out as soon 
as possible. Personally, I see no valid downsides to sending out the letter. I put it together quickly and would 
want to do a formal cite check before sending but I don't think we should let unnecessary moss grow on this 
(As a small matter, I left open me signing as AAG Civil -after an order from Jeff as Acting AG designating 
me as actual AAG of Civil under the Ted Olson OLC opinion and thus freeing up the Acting AAG spot in ENRD 
for Jon Brightbill to assume. But that is a comparatively small matter. I wouldn't want to hold up the letter 
for that. But I continue to think there is no downside with as few as 23 days left in the President's term to 
give Jon and I that added boost in DOJ titles.) 
I have a 5 pm internal ca Non-Responsive -· But I am free to talk on either or both of these subjects circa 6 pm+. 
Or if you want to reach me after I reset work venue to home, my cell# 
Jeff 
Document ID: 0.7.2774.304144 
HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000697 (b) (6) 