1 
2 
3 
4 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE 
5 JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL, 
6 U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
7 WASHINGTON, D.C. 
8 
9 
10 
11 INTERVIEW OF: ROBERT SINNERS 
12 
13 
14 
15 Wednesday, June 15, 2022 
Washington, D.C. 1 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 The interview in the above matter was held via Webex, commencing at 10:07 a.m.  1 
2 Appearances: 
3 
4 
5 For the SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE 
6 THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL: 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBER 2  3 
1 
2 - Good morning. This is a transcribed interview of Robert Sinners, 
3 conducted by the House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the 
4 United States Capitol pursuant to House Resolution 503. At this time, I would like to ask 
5 the witness to please state your full name and spell your last name for the record. 
6 
7 
8 Mr. Sinners. Robert Alexander Sinners, S-i-n-n-e-r-s. 
Thank you. 
This will be a staff-led interview today. Members of the select committee may 
9 be joining us. If they do so during the course of our discussion, they will appear on the 
10 participants screen on the Webex. If any of them so choose, they, of course, may ask 
11 questions as well. And we will note for you if our committee members join for your 
12 awareness. I'll say that as you probably know, this is quite a busy time for the 
13 committee with the hearings that we are putting on this week and this month. So I 
14 don't anticipate that our members will join. But if they do, I will be sure to let you know. 
15 
16 Mr. Sinners. Okay. 
- Mynameis I serve as an investigative counsel for the 
17 select committee. I am joined here in the room by a couple of my colleagues from the 
19 professional staff member. And with us on our --virtually is our chief clerk, -
20 -
21 So Mr. Sinners, before we begin, I would like to go over a few ground rules. We 
22 have an official reporter transcribing the record of this interview. You will have an 
23 opportunity to review the transcript and suggest any corrections before it is finalized. 
24 As you know, as you heard a moment ago, this proceeding through the Webex is being 
25 recorded, but the court reporter's transcript is going to be the official record of our  1 interview today. 
2 
3 Mr. Sinners. Okay. 
- So one thing that that means is that we will ask for you to wait until 
4 our questions are finished before you start your response, so that the court reporter can 
5 make a clean transcript. And for the same reason, we will ask you to give verbal 
6 responses as opposed to, you know, nodding or shaking your head since it is difficult for 
7 the court reporter to record those nonverbal, nonaudible responses. 
8 Mr. Sinners. Understood. 
9 And although this is an interview, it is not a deposition, you are not 
10 under oath, we want to remind you, as we remind every witness, that we have 4 
11 interviewed, that it is unlawful to deliberately provide false information to Congress. Do 
12 you understand that? 
13 
14 Mr. Sinners. I understand that completely. 
- Okay. And I note that you are here voluntarily today. We 
15 appreciate your cooperation. I also note that you have informed us that you are happy 
16 to appear today and proceed without counsel. Is that correct? 
17 
18 
19 Mr. Sinners. Yes. 
Okay. 
So as we go through our interview today, it is important that you understand our 
20 questions so that you are able to answer them to the best of your ability. So if at any 
21 point there are, you know, there is anything that you need clarification, if any of our 
22 questions are not clear, please don't hesitate to ask. We are happy to rephrase. 
23 And similarly, if you don't know the answer to a question, you can say you don't 
24 know or you don't recall. And if --since you have an obligation to be truthful, if you do 
25 recall the answer to the question, we hope that you will answer truthfully there.  1 
2 Mr. Sinners. Absolutely. 
Logistically, if you need any breaks at all, please just let us know, 5 
3 happy to, you know, do a --turn off the cameras and mute break. And like I said, we are 
4 going to hope to get through this pretty quickly and get you back to your regularly 
5 scheduled Wednesday. 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 Mr. Sinners. Sounds good. 
Any questions. 
Mr. Sinners. Nope. 
Okay, great. 
EXAMINATION 
BY 
12 Q Well, Mr. Sinners, why don't you tell us just briefly a little bit about your 
13 background. Where are you from originally? 
14 A Originally I am from South Carolina. Then following college, I moved to 
15 D.C., worked in and out of politics for 10 years. Once COVID came around, you know, 
16 D.C. was a little difficult, to say the least, during COVID and I moved to Georgia to take an 
17 opportunity in a high target State. And then, you know, was witness to an interesting 
18 time in history. And following, you know, I would say --following a departure from kind 
19 of what I had seen, now I am happily working in Georgia for someone I respect and 
20 admire. 
21 Q Okay. Thank you for that. 
22 So just to get a little bit more specifics, when you moved to Georgia, was 
23 that --were you already working for the Trump campaign at that point? 
24 
25 A I had been offered a campaign role in Georgia, yes. 
Q And what was the job that you were offered in Georgia?  1 
2 A 
Q 
3 operations? 
4 
5 
6 
7 A 
Q 
A 
Q State director of Election Day operations. 
And how long did you serve in that role as State director of Election Day 
Approximately from June until the end of the runoffs in Georgia. 
Which would have been early January, 2021? 
Yeah, 6-ish months. 
Okay. Had you worked in any other capacity for the Trump campaign 
8 before June 2020? 
9 A Not for the campaign. I served as a delegate in 2016, but I was a John 
10 Kasich delegate, and then an alternate I guess for the Trump campaign in 2020. 6 
11 Q Okay. And then after the runoffs in early January 2021, what was your next 
12 employment after that point? 
13 A I became the director of constituent services for Secretary of State Brad 
14 Raffensperger. 
15 Q Is that the job that you hold now? 
16 A Well, I have --I am communications director currently. That started 
17 Monday of last week. And it was an interesting week, to say the least. 
18 
19 
20 Q 
A 
Q I am sure. Well, congratulations on the new position. 
Thank you. 
So earlier you referred to working for somebody that I think you said you 
21 respected and admire. Is that Secretary Raffensperger who you are referring to? 
22 
23 A 
Q That would be. 
Okay. And what generally --let us go back to your time working for the 
24 Trump campaign. So when you were State director for Election Day operations in 
25 Georgia, from approximately June through the end of the campaign, tell us general what  7 
1 were your duties and responsibilities? 
2 A So I was the sole Election Day operations staffer for the State. And 
3 essentially, my job was volunteer recruitment, learning more about the voting process, 
4 recruiting attorneys to assist with precinct monitoring, you know, ballot processing, and 
5 getting --and training volunteers to serve, you know, as poll watchers, poll monitors, 
6 election observers, vote review panel members, you know, adjudicators as well as --yeah, 
7 basically just that. The kind of election processes. 
8 Q Okay, great. And who did you report to within the Trump campaign? 
9 A My direct superior was a gentleman, Tom Stoner, he was with the RNC. 
10 And then his superior was Michael Brown, with the Trump campaign. And then his 
11 superior was Mike Roman with the Trump campaign. 
12 Q And both Michael Brown and Mike Roman, were they also a part of the 
13 Election Day operations --
14 
15 
16 A 
Q 
A Hierarchy. 
--structure -­
Sure. Yeah. 
17 Q Hierarchy, great. So help us to understand the connection between the 
18 RNC and the Trump campaign when it came to Election Day operations. I think you said 
19 that, you know, your sort of direct supervisor was an RNC employee but then above that 
20 person were Trump campaign employees? 
21 A Yeah. I mean, I am still trying to kind of figure out. I mean, the best I can 
22 really offer is that campaigns, you know, I think there was a model that everybody was 
23 kind of on one team. You know, I had a Georgia Republican Party staff badge. 
24 worked out of the party. We had a mix of Senate campaign aids in the building, RNC 
25 staff, Georgia GOP staff, Trump campaign staff. It was kind of a mishmash. And I really  8 
1 don't understand, you know, the logic or the reasoning behind it, but that is just how it 
2 was. 
3 I think part of it had to do with, you know, in 2018 or 2019, you know, for the sake 
4 of argument there was sunlight provisions, sunset provision of, you know, a consent 
5 decree prohibiting the RNC from engaging in Election Day operations. You know, it had 
6 to be on the local level, it couldn't be a national effort. And I think this was kind of the 
7 first step to kind of get the RNC back into that. Because now our --this cycle RNC is 
8 doing a full-blown program, so I guess this was kind of a baby step. 
9 Q Okay. That is helpful. Thank you. 
10 So you said you had a badge and worked out of the Georgia Republican Party 
11 headquarters. How closely did you work with the State party chair, David Shafer, or the 
12 executive director, Stewart Bragg? 
13 A Very, very closely. They were monitoring, you know, our process. 
14 considered myself reporting to them. They were very helpful with volunteer 
15 recruitment, getting me on calls with county party chairs, and getting that volunteer 
16 recruitment aspect really nailed down. 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 Q Okay, great. 
Any other background questions? 
No. 
BY 
Q So Mr. Sinners, I think we are going to spend the bulk of our time today 
22 talking about the process of convening what were described as either contingent or 
23 alternate electors --
24 
25 A 
Q Uh-huh. 
--in the post-election time period after 2020. Before we dive into the  9 
1 specifics, you made a remark when we first started this interview that you were witness 
2 to an interesting time following the election. And I thought I would ask you to explain to 
3 us a little bit more what comes to mind when you are thinking about this experience. 
4 What made you say that you were witness to an interesting time? 
5 A I have been a part of campaigns for 15 years, you know, some on the 
6 proximity, some just kind of casual door knocking, and I have never seen something more 
7 disorganized in my life. It just, you know, the strategy, the operations, you know, just 
8 was truly bizarre. 
9 
10 Q 
A Understood. 
Yeah, yeah. I am sure that the answer to that question will come out by 
11 the end of this interview just in bits and pieces as we go down that road. 
12 Q Okay. That makes sense. And when you are thinking about this time 
13 period where the level of, you know, sort of --I think you said you have never seen more 
14 disorganization. Did that apply to both the pre-and post-election time period? 
15 
16 A 
Q Very much so, very much so. 
Okay. All right. Well, let's focus on the time period after the November 
17 3rd, 2020 Presidential election. We are going to talk to you about the concept of the 
18 alternate electors. 
19 
20 A 
Q All right. 
So I would like to ask you to try to remember when was the first time you 
21 heard about the possibility of convening Trump electors in Georgia, even though the 
22 State had certified a victory for President Biden in Georgia? 
23 A Yeah, if I remember correctly, the lawsuit, the election challenge was filed by 
24 the campaign on December 3rd. And as it moved into December 14th, somewhere 
25 between there, I want to say late the week before so maybe around December 10th,  10 
1 December 11th I started hearing a buzz about this. And that first buzz came from the 
2 State party. My memory serves that David Shafer called. It was either that Stewart 
3 Bragg called me and told me to call David Shafer or that David Shafer called me, but that 
4 is the first that I heard about it happening. 
5 At that point, it was kind of an RNC, Trump campaign, you know --what word am I 
6 looking for? Initiative. And as we kind of moved toward that, different lawyers got 
7 involved. And all, you know, the whole impetus in my understanding, and still my 
8 understanding to this day, even though I think history shows that there was something 
9 else going on outside is that, you know, because there was an election challenge filed on 
10 the 3rd, that had not yet been given a court date, it was still pending in court. And, you 
11 know, at that time and still I have --I am not completely out there on it, but, you know, it 
12 had been called a --the best challenge. I know that the lawyers that were involved, you 
13 know, were looking instead of moving towards some of the crazier stuff that was out 
14 there in the atmosphere. We were looking at people that weren't allowed to vote, 
15 people who were told that they had already voted, people that experienced issues at the 
16 polls. And so, I think there was a good sense that okay, you know, this should at least 
17 proceed. 
18 And the attorneys at the time said that part of --the court challenge would 
19 effectively be mooted unless these electors were put in place to do so. And I think part 
20 of the confidence at the time was that, you know, Georgia law required that they be 
21 certified at the State capital, I think the law says the seat of government, at a specific 
22 time, noon. And the lawyers were very specific about hitting each one of those criteria 
23 so that, you know, it would be legitimate. 
24 You know, there was a requirement that the Governor sign off on the electors. 
25 So, you know, unless the Governor had been compelled by a court or something like that,  11 
1 you know, that just would have been a fall back. But, yes, the first I really heard about it 
2 was late in the week before, maybe around December 10th, December 11th. 
3 
4 
5 Q 
A 
Q Okay. 
Yeah. 
That is a very helpful explanation and overview. I would like to go back and 
6 ask you a couple of questions about some of things you said just to get a little more 
7 detail. So, I know you said that your first understanding of it when you had this phone 
8 call with Mr. Shafer and/or Mr. Bragg, was that this was an RNC and Trump campaign 
9 initiative. What can you remember about what gave you that understanding that this 
10 was an initiative by the RNC and Trump campaign? 
11 A Well, I mean, you know, the Trump campaign was, you know, all for it. And 
12 then the RNC through our regional political director was saying, Yeah, like, you know, 
13 proceed, move forward. And, you know, I saw it. It had been explained by some 
14 people that maybe there was a strong contingent at the time the belief that there was, 
15 you know, a strong part of the base shall we say, that, you know, to see giving up on 
16 former President, or at that time, President Trump, you know, they wouldn't come out 
17 and vote. 
18 So that, you know, creating the understanding that the RNC, the Georgia GOP, you 
19 know, the Senate candidates were fighting for the President was the message that 
20 wanted to be delivered. You know, I saw some validity to that, but I also had some 
21 concerns about that because I think Senate candidates should run independently of other 
22 political wins, but, you know, that is kind of irrelevant for the case. But yeah, you know, 
23 I had gotten the impression that all parties were at least initially really moving forward for 
24 this. 
25 Q Okay. And did Mr. Shafer give you that impression, that the RNC and  1 Trump campaign were moving forward with this? 
2 
3 A 
Q Yes, yes. 
Okay. I think --I just want to clarify one thing that you just said. I think 
4 you gave the --I understood you to be saying that the RNC and the Trump campaign 
5 thought it was important to be seen as continuing to fight for President Trump as a way 
6 of making sure the base remained engaged through the Senate runoffs. Is that a fair 
7 summary of what you thought? 
8 
9 A 
Q 
10 part of that? 
11 A I think that would be an accurate characterization. 
Okay. And did you see the effort to convene the alternate electors as a 
I did, I did. Yeah, I saw --I saw it as, you know, fighting, fighting for the 
12 President. Yeah. 
13 Q How did you have that impression? Did anyone say anything to you that 
14 indicated that the campaign, or the RNC, viewed the convening of alternate electors as 
15 part of that kind of messaging to the base? 12 
16 A Yeah. I mean, I can't really recollect any specific instance. But it seemed 
17 like everyone that was in a position of authority was on board for this, and saw it as 
18 a --you know, saw it as an avenue. 
19 Q Okay. And I think you mentioned having some interaction with the RNC 
20 regional political director about this topic. Who is that individual that you are referring 
21 to there? 
22 
23 
24 
25 A 
Q 
A 
Q His name is Brian Barrett. 
Is that someone that you worked with during the election? 
Yeah, yes. 
And was he responsible for only Georgia, or other areas as well?  1 
2 
3 
4 A 
Q 
A 
Q He had --he had other States, I am not sure which. 
Got it. But Georgia was one of them? 
Yes. 
Okay. So you said after this first call with Mr. Shafer, the lawyers got 13 
5 involved. Who were the lawyers that you remember becoming involved in the effort to 
6 convene these alternate electors in Georgia? 
7 A Ray Smith and his associates. He was our local counsel. He was there 
8 during the --you know, during the elector thing. Is there a better term? During the 
9 convening of the alternates, he was there. He had signed off. We had some other 
10 local counsel that was there. There were lawyers from the campaign that were cc'd on 
11 some emails, Josh Findlay was one of those. There was --I remember kind of. I mean, 
12 not entirely sure, but that, you know, the HQ legal being involved. And it just kind 
13 of --kind of strikes me that something --
14 Are you there? 
15 
16 Q 
A Yeah. We might have lost our video, but we are here. 
Yeah. It struck me that this was something that was well-known 
17 throughout the campaign and headquarters. It seemed like --it seemed like it was, you 
18 know, something the campaign was full steam ahead on. 
19 Q Okay. Thank you. You said that you thought there were some HQ level 
20 lawyers involved. Who were you thinking about then? 
21 A Potentially Justin Clark, or Matt Morgan or some of the other folks that, you 
22 know. I just know judging by how the campaign operated that everything really had to 
23 go through a higher level to be cleared. But, you know, I remember that there were HQ 
24 lawyers saying --saying, Yeah, move forward, proceed. 
25 Q Okay. And when say judging by how the campaign operated, is that based  14 
1 on your experience with the campaign from June through Election Day? 
Yep, absolutely. 2 
3 A 
Q Were you aware or --either directly or indirectly of a change in the HQ level, 
4 sort of the leadership of the litigation efforts after the election? 
5 A No, no. I know --I mean --well, I know that Rudy Giuliani had gotten more 
6 involved. But, you know, there was kind of a divide, but still the kind of professional 
7 lawyers I guess were, you know, still running the show. 
8 Q Okay, understood. Yeah that --my question was a little unclear. But 
9 what I was referring to was Mayor Giulian i's becoming, you know, the --in charge of 
10 litigation efforts after the election. And it seems like you perceived that the professional 
11 lawyers employed by the campaign or working on the campaign through Election Day 
12 remains the appropriate kind of supervisory position? 
13 A Yeah, because after --afterwards, I still had conversations with people who I 
14 considered normal. I mean, this was unrelated to, you know, electors or anything. But 
15 I still recall hearing their names, hearing, you know --I would get phone calls pretty 
16 frequently up until, you know, after the runoff when I just quit answering my phone 
17 because, you know, I am unaffiliated with anyone at this point. So yeah, I got the sense 
18 that there was still normalcy taking place from HQ. 
19 Q Okay. Did you speak directly to Justin Clark, Matt Morgan or Josh Findlay 
20 about the idea of alternate electors? 
21 A I am pretty sure I spoke --I am pretty sure. I just cannot --I can't confirm, 
22 because I spoke with them about a lot of things and I can't --I can't say yes or no. 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A 
Q Okay. 
But it wouldn't surprise me if I did, it wouldn't surprise me if I didn't. 
Okay. That is helpful. What about any lawyers, either Rudy Giuliani  15 
1 himself, or any of the other lawyers who were working with him. Did you talk to anyone 
2 kind of on his team, his associates about alternate electors? 
3 A There had been a call with Christina Bobb from OAN. I didn't know what 
4 that was at the time or I hadn't heard of it. I didn't have cable for about a 2-year period. 
5 And I had gotten the sense that that was about publicizing, you know, the elector thing 
6 afterwards, but no one on Rudy's team directly. I remember that someone had asked 
7 me for a State senator's number because Rudy wanted to speak with them. But I 
8 don't --I never spoke with Rudy directly. At that point, you know, I was like pretty out 
9 on Rudy. And I had never spoken with him directly, but I know he was calling anyone 
10 and everyone in Georgia around that time. 
11 Q Okay. You also had described the --earlier when you were giving us your 
12 overview, you sort of described your understanding of the meeting of the alternate 
13 electors as being connected to, preserving a remedy for litigation that was pending in 
14 Georgia. 
15 
16 A 
Q Right. 
How did you learn --how did you come to have that understanding? Who 
17 told you that? 
18 A I can't say directly, but I know that multiple lawyers had expressed that 
19 sentiment. Ray Smith, the counsel here in Georgia that the campaign hired, he's a 
20 pretty respectable lawyer. He had expressed that sentiment. The State party deputy 
21 counsel had expressed that sentiment. And there were a number of attorneys who had 
22 expressed that yes, this was ha --that was preserving a legal --you know, preserving legal 
23 rights for the campaign. 
24 Q Okay. Any other names that come to mind of lawyers that you spoke it 
25 about that other than or in addition to Ray Smith?  16 
1 A Ray Smith, Alex Kaufman was the deputy counsel for the State party at the 
2 time. I know Cleta Mitchell was down here. And I don't remember any specific 
3 conversation with her about it. But, you know, we were --it was just kind of come and 
4 go, you know, every 12 seconds and it was just the sense was, yeah, you know, a united 
5 front, this is legal, this is what needs to happen in order for, you know, the law --the 
6 election challenge suit to move forward. 
7 Q Okay, got it. And all these conversations with lawyers or your 
8 understanding of the perspective of these lawyers, that all came to be known by you after 
9 your initial conversation with David Shafer? 
10 A Yeah. And he had expressed that he had spoken to campaign officials. 
11 don't know who. But he had given me the same rundown that this has to happen. 
12 This is about preserving legal rights. I assumed this is the State party chairman that, you 
13 know, he had counsel and outside counsel, you know, expressing this sentiment to him. 
14 I know that Ray's office had expressed the same thing. And no one that I spoke to 
15 directly had, you know, raised any red flags about this at the time. 
16 Q Okay. Did you ever either interact directly or come to learn of advice given 
17 by a lawyer named Ken Chesebro? 
18 A He had sent the documents to me. And I had never spoken --or do I not 
19 recollect speaking with him directly. I really think I didn't. But I know he had sent me 
20 an email with, you know, Here's the documents we had a local attorney, take a look at 
21 them. I know they added --they made some edits. But, yeah, he had produced the 
22 documents. 
23 
24 Q 
A Okay. Who was the local attorney who took a look at those documents? 
There were a number. I want to say that it was Kaufman, but I am not 
25 entirely sure.  17 
1 Q Okay. Did you ever receive a legal memo from Ken Chesebro about the 
2 concept of alternate electors? 
3 A I don't remember, like, a memo of outlining that everything is possible, but I 
4 probably would not have read it at that point. 
5 Q Understood. So what you remember receiving from Mr. Chesebro were 
6 the actual documents, like this is where you sign and this is where you send it, that kind 
7 of stuff? 
8 
9 A 
Q Right. 
Okay. Got it. So just to be clear, I think you said that you thought that 
10 the first phone call that you had with David Shafer was around December 10th or 11th. 
11 As you said, the focus was on making sure that the electors were to meet as required by 
12 statute, which would have been the December 14th meeting. December 14th was the 
13 date to meet after the 2020 election. So all of these conversations that you are 
14 referring to I presume happened between that 3-or 4-day window. Is that right? 
15 
16 A 
Q That would be accurate. 
Okay. And in your initial conversation with David Shafer, did he ask you to 
17 take specific actions to effectuate this plan of getting the electors together? 
18 A I don't remember because it was kind of an up-in-the-air thing. I remember 
19 that one point like multiple people --there were just so many wires being crossed, 
20 because looking back it makes sense, because I don't think this was coming from one 
21 specific person. It was kind of like a, you know, mishmash-type thing. But, you know, 
22 he was --there was a conversation. And I got the list of electors from Stewart Bragg. 
23 And then, between he and David working the people and me following up, you know, we 
24 got most of those people agreed, you know. I explained kind of the legal aspect that 
25 had been provided to me, because there were some questions. And I think individual  1 attorneys may have followed up. And you know, there were I think four people that 
2 couldn't make it. And yeah, I --I don't --I am not really sure of how the delegation of 
3 duties came to play. I just know that, you know, in my capacity working for the Trump 
4 campaign, I was a Trump campaign employee, you know, and it was kind of vol untold. 
5 And, you know, for me as long as I had multiple attorneys telling me, yeah --multiple 
6 attorneys that I trusted their legal background, you know, I was okay with it. 
7 
8 
9 Q 
A 
Q Okay. 
The legal rationale made sense to me. 
Got it. So before we move on and I do want to ask you some questions 
10 about, you know, the logistics and, you know, find being the electors and getting them 
11 there. But before we move on, just on that point that you just raised, I want to share 
12 with you some testimony that we have received in the course of our investigation. 
13 
14 A 
Q Okay. 
That --the select committee has received testimony that indicates that the 
15 professional lawyers for the campaign that you identified earlier, Justin Clark, Matt 
16 Morgan and Josh Findlay, while they may have been involved in an earlier stage of 18 
17 researching and advising about the possibility of convening alternate slates of electors to 
18 preserve a litigation remedy, that that would have been earlier in December. And over 
19 that weekend, before the electors were to meet on the 14th, each of those three lawyers 
20 declined to participate any further. 
21 So we have testimony that indicates that Justin Clark, Matt Morgan, and Josh 
22 Findlay, informed the campaign, likely the President himself, but also Rudy Giuliani and 
23 those working with him that they did not feel it was appropriate to proceed with this 
24 plan, and that they would no longer be involved. They were, at that time, told that this 
25 lawyer, Ken Chesebro, would be the point person for this campaign, or not campaign, this  1 effort to convene the alternate slates of electors. It doesn't sound like that was 
2 communicated to you. Is that fair? 
3 
4 
5 A 
Q 
A It was not. Yeah, that was not communicated to me. 
Okay. How does that affect your understanding of these events? 
If I --had I known that, you know, I would have thrown my hands up in the 
6 air, because that was not communicated to me at all. 19 
7 Q What do you mean by would have thrown your hands up in the air? Would 
8 you have not wanted to participate in this any further as well? 
9 A I absolutely would not have. Had I known that the three main lawyers for 
10 the campaign that I had spoken to in the past and were leading up were not on board, 
11 yeah. 
12 Q Okay. Well, let's talk a little bit about the logistics about how this all came 
13 together, if that is okay. 
14 A Okay. 
15 Q So maybe we will bring up a couple of documents that you produced to us 
16 last week. And we appreciate you sending them over. 
17 A Sure. 
Q Let's start with exhibit 2, if you don't mind. 18 
19 So Mr. Sinners, this is one of your emails, it is dated December 11th, 2020. Are 
20 you able to see it on the screen with us? 
21 
22 A 
Q I can. 
Okay. So this looks like an email that came in on Friday from Mr. Shafer, 
23 the State party chair to yourself, with several of the individuals you have described to us 
24 earlier copied. And it describes --I think it, you know, it looks like it is an email that 
25 originally had attached the seven documents for Georgia electors, as reflected in the  1 subject line. 
2 
3 
4 
5 A 
Q 
A 
Q Right. 
Do you remember this email? 
I mean, I --yeah. Yes, I do. 
How does it fit in the timeline that you described to us earlier from your 
6 original conversation with Mr. Shafer and the efforts to organize the electors to meet? 
7 A It was probably after my first phone call about it. Prob --I would assume 
8 that the first phone call happened early on Friday, potentially --probably not Thursday, 20 
9 but Friday. And to me, that kind of reflects the whole kind of mishmash. You know, he 
10 is hearing that one person's doing this, but the other person is saying that this, you know, 
11 and it is --just kind of reflects the general disorganization that was the campaign. 
12 Q Got it. Okay. And it looks like from the second paragraph and the --I 
13 guess the second sentence of this email, it reflects that Mr. Shafer reserved a room at the 
14 capital at the request of Ray Smith. Is that right? 
15 
16 A 
Q I would assume that that would be correct. 
Okay. Did you have any role in reserving a room at the State capital for the 
17 Trump electors to meet? 
18 
19 A 
Q I did not. 
Okay. So the individuals that are on the copy line of this email, include 
20 Brian Barrett, who you identified for us earlier as the RNC political director over Georgia. 
21 Did he remain involved in the effort as the weekend went on and into December 14th? 
22 A I would say that he remained notified, but he never had anything specifically, 
23 you know, any tasks, any notification or anything like that, but it was, you know, keeping 
24 tabs on --on it. 
25 Q Okay. All right. Let's look at exhibit 3, please. So a slightly more  21 
1 updated version of the same email thread. This one is Saturday, December 12th, at a 
2 little bit before 11:00 a.m. in the morning. Same distribution group. And Mr. Shafer 
3 writes, Josh Findlay now claims that Mike Roman is doing it. And I think the "it" 
4 means --refers to the earlier email about contacting electors? Is that right? 
I would assume so. 5 
6 A 
Q Okay. So tell us a little more about the involvement of Mike Roman in this 
7 effort. Is this the first --oh, sorry. Go ahead, Mr. Sinners. 
8 
9 A 
Q Sure. No. Continue. 
I was just going to ask you if this is the first time that Mr. Roman became 
10 involved in this effort or if you knew he was involved before that? 
11 A So I --I knew that Mike was involved, but I only spoke with Mike probably 
12 once about it, because locally, you know, it was really handled with us on a local level. 
13 mean, campaigns tend to have that aspect where you are only focused on the campaign 
14 and what is directly in front of you. So I understood that in the States where there were 
15 challenges this was happening. But there was one call about kind of a national, I guess, 
16 effort. But ours was very Georgia specific. It was being handled very, you know, 
17 specific to Georgia. You know, Mike Roman never reached out to any Georgia electors I 
18 would confidently say. 
19 Q Got it. Okay. And did you ever have any communications with Mike 
20 Roman about the legality or sort of appropriateness of the process for convening these 
21 alternate electors? 
22 A You know the same thing kind of stands, you know, discussions of yes, you 
23 know, legal counsel has reviewed this is legal, you know. Abstract conversations, but 
24 never, like, so-and-so from HQ has said that --that, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. You 
25 know, I was kind of relying on the fact that, you know, it seemed that HQ was on board,  22 
1 and that our local counsel, Ray Smith, my campaign attorney, you know, had signed off, 
2 you know, and participated. 
3 Q Sure, understood. So one other piece of the evidence that the select 
4 committee has developed through our investigation is that there was a --this discussion 
5 between the professional campaign lawyers Justin Clark, Matt Morgan and Josh Findlay 
6 on one side and those lawyers associated with Rudy Giuliani on the other side. In the 
7 course of the three lawyers, Mr. Clark, Mr. Morgan and Mr. Findlay, declining to proceed 
8 any further in this effort, there was a discussion of Mr. Roman, Mike Roman, and the EDO 
9 operation taking over the effort from the more, sort of, traditional political effort within 
10 the campaign. Was any of that communicated to you either by Mr. Roman or anyone 
11 else? 
12 A I mean, I know, you know, that I was the EDO guy for Georgia. And I was 
13 asked, and I understand the other EDO directors were. I just did not see it at the time as 
14 it being, you know, I like the word foisted upon EDO for reasons that, you know, legal 
15 objected. I was not aware of that. 
16 Q Got it. During this time period after the election, I think you already 
17 referred a little bit to what was publicly reported at the time and certainly has been 
18 confirmed by our investigation that there was a divide between the more professional 
19 campaign lawyers and staff at headquarters and the team that was working with Mayor 
20 Giuliani. Do you have a sense for where Mr. Roman fell as far as which kind of strategic 
21 direction or group within the campaign he was affiliated with during this time period? 
22 A Not really, because Mike's kind of a paid operator, you know. He is kind of 
23 a hired gun. I get the sense that he was, you know --maybe after the campaign I get the 
24 sense that he was maybe he was more tied into the rattle. But I know that my intent 
25 was never to be aligned with team crazy. But there was also kind of some things at that  23 
1 time that, you know, on the campaign you are not really paying attention to what the 
2 media's saying. I wasn't watching the TV, you know. I didn't even realize that Rudy 
3 Giuliani's hair dye was dripping at a press conference until a couple days later. It was 
4 really around Christmas that, like, some time to kind of relax and breathe a little bit that it 
5 was like, ugh, this is not --you know, Rudy is leading us down a dangerous path. 
6 Q Understood, okay. All right. Let's look at another document quickly, 
7 exhibit 4, please. 
8 So Mr. Sinners, this is another email that you shared with us, it is from Friday --oh, 
9 I am sorry, it is from Saturday, December 12th, at about 5 o'clock in the evening from 
10 Mike Roman to yourself and Josh Findlay. And it seems to convey that Mr. Findlay 
11 offered to help and is from Georgia. And kind of implies that maybe that he would be 
12 en route to Georgia. Do you remember --did Josh Findlay come down to Georgia during 
13 this December time period? 
14 A He did, but I don't remember him being there during, like, elector. You 
15 know, I think he came down a couple days later. I may be incorrect. But the only 
16 conversations I remember with Findlay were that Friday, I think his --he and I spoke 
17 reasonably regularly. I can say that Findlay struck me as somebody that was on kind of 
18 the normal aspect. I think he is a very good lawyer. I think he has a good head on his 
19 shoulders. And I don't remember any objections from him specifically. 
20 Q Okay. And did you have any further conversations with him over the 
21 weekend, so if those objections were raised on Saturday or into the weekend before the 
22 electoral college meeting, did Mr. Findlay ever revise his statements to you about the 
23 propriety of that process? 
24 A I would not recall that. I do know that had somebody like Josh said stand 
25 down, I would not have, you know, helped this.  24 
1 Q Understood. So if --if it had been communicated to you that continuing on 
2 the path of convening these alternate electors was a path that you would be following 
3 Rudy Giuliani down that path, as opposed to Justin Clark, Matt Morgan and Josh Findlay, 
4 is it fair to say that you wouldn't have continued? 
5 
6 A I --yeah. If I --I would have been on team HQ legal for sure. 
Q Got it, okay. Let's look really quickly at exhibit 5, please. And if you just 
7 scroll down a little bit so we can see the email at the bottom there. Okay, great. We 
8 can continue scrolling if you would like to see the last couple of bullet points there, Mr. 
9 Sinners. But do you remember this email? 
10 A I know that it was sent, yes. 
11 Q Great, okay. So it looks like an email from you on Saturday, December 
12 12th, late in the evening, 10:41 p.m., with several of the individuals we have discussed 
13 already on the recipient list, including David Shafer, the State party chair; Mr. Bragg, the 
14 executive director; Brian Barrett from the RNC, Josh Findlay, and Mike Roman from the 
15 Trump campaign. Is that right? 
16 
17 A Yes. 
Q Okay. And I just would like to talk with you a little bit about these bullet 
18 points at the bottom through which I think you are conveying the status of your outreach 
19 to the potential alternate electors in Georgia. Is that right? 
20 
21 A Yes. 
Q Okay. So tell us what you remember about this, like, the first bullet point 
22 here looks like it is listing the electors who confirmed with you. Does that mean did you 
23 speak with each of these electors that are listed in that first bullet point? 
24 
25 A I would assume that would be the case. 
Q Okay.  25 
1 A I had been directed to reach out and make sure that they were there. And 
2 so, I spoke with each one of them and, you know, they were on board. 
3 Q Okay. And when you reached out to them, did you convey what had 
4 already been conveyed to you about the legality of the process, sort of the reason for 
5 meeting being to preserve litigation remedy? 
6 A I would assume so. I would assume there would have been those 
7 questions. And, you know, my response would be that State party legal counsel and 
8 Trump campaign legal counsel had, you know, assured that this was the method that, you 
9 know, had to happen. And most of these people were very, you know, very committed 
10 Trump supporters so, you know, they wanted to help. 
11 
12 Q 
A Okay. Were any of them confused or concerned about the process? 
I remember maybe one or two that were, you know, just had questions. 
13 think I had let Chairman Shafer know. And, you know, he had reached out --I know that 
14 he had reached out to a number of these people. And, you know, when I spoke to a 
15 number of these people, they had said that they'd already been contacted by Shafer or, 
16 you know, another party leader. And there were numerous, you know, outreach 
17 methods. 
18 Q Do you remember which ones said they had already been contacted by 
19 Chairman Shafer? 
20 A I think Shawn Still had, Joseph or anybody that --I think Shawn Still or Joseph 
21 Brannan I think already knew, because most --most of these individuals are, in some 
22 capacity, on the Georgia GOP, like, State committee or, you know, holding office within 
23 there. And I know they have group chats and, you know, other ways. But most of the 
24 people that I spoke to already knew of this. 
25 Q Okay. In the second bullet point here, you note two people that had been  1 on the original electors list that were not going to participate. The first one is Patrick 
2 Garland you describe as not able to perform his duties. Do you remember the 
3 circumstances there? 
4 
5 A 
Q I think his wife had passed away, like, the day before. 
Goodness. Well, certainly understandable absence then. What about 
6 Representative Susan Holmes. You described her as not compliant there. What do 
7 you remember about your interactions with Representative Holmes? 
8 A I just said, Hey, you know, this is Robert Sinners with the Trump campaign 26 
9 and she hung up. And then I called her back and she hung up. And I think I texted her. 
10 And, you know, it was like uh. I was, like, you know, Chairman Shafer, you can reach 
11 out. And I never really --it was just kind of life moved on. 
12 
13 Q 
A Got it. So did you have a chance to explain to her the process at all? 
I think --I think I did by text but, you know, she --she had seemed --she had 
14 seemed, you know, just not interested. 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 Q 
A Okay. Did you have any sense that her concerns were -­
Can I put you on mute real quick? 
- Sure. Go right ahead. Let us go off the record for a brief break. 
[Recess.] 
Mr. Sinners. I'm back. 
- Thank you. Mr. Sinners -­
Mr. Sinners. Sorry about that. 
- Oh, no worries at all. I actually just had one short thing I needed to 
23 deal with. Can we stay off the record and we will come back? We will just take a brief 
24 break, come back in less than 5 minutes. 
25 Mr. Sinners. Sure, sure.  1 
2 
3 
4 Okay. Great. Thank you so much. 
[Recess.] 
BY 
Q Thanks for the quick break, Mr. Sinners. 
5 So I think right before we took a break, we were talking about your 27 
6 communications with potential alternate electors in Georgia. And you told us that, you 
7 know, you really hadn't had any success in talking to Ms. Holmes. So I wanted to 
8 confirm that Representative Holmes --did she have any concerns about the propriety or 
9 appropriateness of the process, or was it more a matter of just not having the 
10 opportunity to have a fulsome conversation about it? 
11 A I would assume that looking back, those might have been her concerns. 
12 But, you know, she just did not want to speak with me and we left it at that. I told 
13 Chairman Shafer. I think he might have had a conversation with her. But, you know, 
14 there was just no communication or, you know, there was --you know, she did not 
15 divulge much. 
16 Q Okay. Understood. And there was one other that I think I won't pull the 
17 email back up, unless it is helpful to refresh your recollection about it, but I think you also 
18 referred to John Isakson as somebody who you had also reached out to. 
19 
20 
21 A 
Q 
A Yeah. 
What did you remember about your interactions with Mr. Isakson? 
He was really nice. A really good guy. He just said, you know, I think I am 
22 out. I don't --I think he was just really kind of moving past Trump. And I remember 
23 specifically saying, Hey, man, I can't blame you. I have to ask. And I think that, you 
24 know, if you were to speak with him, I think he might recollect the same, you know. 
25 was not pushy. I was not, like, you are not part of the team, you know, you are a --but I  28 
1 was, like, Hey, man, I get it. 
2 Q Right. He is on --somebody gave you a list. He is on the list. You are 
3 calling him and telling him the kind of plan, and what was his response? 
4 A Trying to sell him a time share, you know. It was, like --he was just, like, I 
5 can't make it. This isn't something I want to be --you know, I want to participate in. 
6 Q Okay. And that last part is what I want to tease out a little bit. In your 
7 communications with Mr. Isakson, did he say that he couldn't make it because he had, 
8 you know, a dentist appointment, you know, or some other conflict that would prevent 
9 him from attending it as scheduling matter or was it more of a substantive concern? 
10 A I think it was neither. He was just very much like, I don't want to be 
11 involved. And, you know, I don't think he was, like, I am concerned that this is, you 
12 know, unethical, illegal or immoral or otherwise. I think he was just, like, I don't want to 
13 be involved. And I think that --you know, I understood where he was coming from. 
14 think it was one of those things if I get what you are saying, that is all you need to say. 
15 
16 
17 Q 
A 
Q Okay. Got it. 
You know. 
But you did have a phone conversation with Mr. Isakson and he --you 
18 exchanged those words, he said back to you that he didn't want to be involved. Is that 
19 right? 
20 A Right. I mean, he might have phrased it differently. But the message 
21 conveys was yeah, like, I have got other things to do, like, I don't want to be involved, you 
22 know. My fight for President Trump is done. 
23 Q Got it, okay. And so what did you do --what were you told about the 
24 implication of these electors that are on the list like Patrick Garland, Ms. Holmes, 
25 Mr. Isakson, what were you told about the implications of they're no longer participating?  29 
1 A That there were no implications. That you could just file a document, you 
2 know, a replacement document. That is all that was really conveyed to me. 
3 Q Okay. And who gave you that impression that there were no implications if 
4 the original electors couldn't participate? 
5 A I mean, it had come from the Chesebro documents. There was one, like a 
6 notification. I think you have got to notify, like, the Governor's office or something like 
7 that. And, you know, local counsel. Again, the same kind of thing, our local counsel 
8 had, you know, that --that was the case that this document was, you know, the 
9 mechanism for doing that. 
10 Q Okay. Did they tell you anything about the implication of the Governor, 
11 you know --was it just a matter of notifying the Governor? Did they tell you that they 
12 needed the Governor to approve the --sign off on the replacement electors? 
13 A I am not entirely sure. But, you know, at the time, I remembered that as 
14 kind of a, in the plus category that for this to actually have an effect, the Governor would 
15 have to sign off. And I knew that if the Governor had signed off, then there would have 
16 been a court judgment or something substantive in that regard that, you know, that 
17 almost mitigated any sort of red flag or anything like that. 
18 Q Okay. So it was your under --you understood that the Governor had 
19 certified a slate of electors for Biden, right? 
20 A Yes, yeah.  30 
1 
2 [11:12 p.m.] 
3 BY 
4 Q And so it was your understanding that for the Governor to take some action 
5 to certify the Trump slate, that --
6 A Right. That something would have to --that some --something substantive 
7 would have to change, right. 
8 Q Okay. Okay. And what impression were you given about what might 
9 happen with these certificates or the slate of electors if the Governor didn't sign off on 
10 them? 
11 A Likely that, you know, it would just be another kind of piece of paper that 
12 has no effect, you know, kind of --kind of thing. That, you know, if the challenge failed, 
13 then there wouldn't be any recourse for the campaign; that the, you know, election 
14 challenge would be mooted; that, you know, life would go on and President Biden would 
15 be President. 
16 Q Okay. Did you ever hear of any discussion, either before the electors met 
17 or after it, about getting --trying to get the State legislature to take some action with 
18 regard to the Trump electors? 
19 A I know that there had been some discussion of filing like some sort of lawsuit 
20 for that earlier on, but I wasn't really sure of the mechanics of that. I know, you know, 
21 there was just a lot of talk about options, but I don't think that there was --I was not 
22 aware of any substantive effort to put pressure on the State legislature. I know that, 
23 you know, people were saying, call a special session, there were chain letters going out, 
24 you know, all of that sort of stuff. I never gave any, you know, two cents to that. 
25 Q Okay. Did you see those efforts to, you know, encourage the Georgia  31 
1 legislature to convene a special session as connected to this issue of naming Trump 
2 electors instead of Biden electors? 
3 
4 
5 A 
Q 
A I did not. 
Okay. 
I did not see those connected. Or I can say that I was not aware of any 
6 effort by the campaign to do that. Because, you know, at the time, and this is 
7 something that as we've moved past, you know, I kind of thought that my position where 
8 I was, that I was getting a sense, the pulse of where all the pieces were moving, but, you 
9 know, I had learned that there were some other things happening around me that I was 
10 not aware of. 
11 
12 Q 
A What are some of those things that you learned about later? 
People trying to get into voting machines. People, you know, I would say, 
13 coordinated harassment campaigns of elections officials. Efforts to get, you know, State 
14 legislatures --State legislators to call a special session. There were other things going on 
15 that I was not aware of at the time. And, you know, I think incorrectly I thought that I 
16 had a solid kind of holistic pulse of what was happening in Georgia at the time. 
17 Q Okay. What did you --you mentioned that you learned later of what I think 
18 you described as a coordinated harassment campaign of election officials. Tell me what 
19 you're referring to there. 
20 A There were just, I want to say, activists that were really taking on this idea 
21 that, you know, election officials in their capacity had acted --had willingly violated the 
22 law to benefit President Biden. It's not real --it's not something that I agree with. You 
23 know, I think an example is I didn't realize that Kanye West's publicist had gone down and 
24 chased down, you know, a woman that had been incorrectly, you know, outed or 
25 incorrectly, you know, fingered as, you know, some great perpetrator of election fraud.  32 
1 That had to have come from people, you know, in, I would say, in an official capac---I 
2 don't know how to phrase it. But that isn't just something that happens organically. 
3 And I had no clue about that. And as history moved on, there were other things, but, 
4 you know, I was like, I had --that was happening right under my thumb and I had no idea. 
5 
6 Q 
A Any other things that you learned about that gave you that reaction? 
I mean, you know, that people were kind of hunting down election machines 
7 and trying to take copies of the EMS, and stuff like that. You know, I had thought a lot 
8 of that was just like kind of crazy talk. But then, you know, I think there's more and 
9 more evidence that --that that may have occurred. And I can't say for sure, but I know 
10 that those efforts were happening, and, you know, at the time, I didn't realize that that 
11 was the case. 
12 Q Okay. Anything that --for this sort of conduct that you're describing here, 
13 did you learn about that through public reporting, through the media, or did any of it 
14 come from your own, you know, contacts in the Republican Party and the former Trump 
15 campaign? 
16 A I'd say --I'd say a mix of all of the above. I mean, over the past 18 months, 
17 I've kind of been one of our experts on election disinformation, and as I've researched 
18 media reports, talked to people on the ground who have kind of come to similar kind of, 
19 you know, conclusions as I have about the validity of what was happening post-election, 
20 I've realized that, yeah, there was a lot of stuff happening that no one really had the full, 
21 full picture of. 
22 Q Okay. And not to get too far afield, but just, generally, based on your 
23 understanding of these issues and the disinformation that you've been working on in your 
24 new role, in your current role, what do you think the impact is on election workers as 
25 a --sort of as individuals or as a group and on kind of the safe functioning of our  33 
1 democracy from this type of disinformation? 
I think it's the number one issue facing our civil society today. I do. 2 
3 A 
Q And have you seen --do you think we're going --do you think we're trending 
4 in the right direction or the wrong direction when it comes to that? 
5 A A mix of both. Something that I continue to remind myself is that the 
6 loudest --there's a great quote out there and I can't remember it, but to paraphrase, you 
7 know, the loudest voices are the --just because there's a loud voice out there does not 
8 mean that it is reflective of the majority. I think you have a very vocal minority leading 
9 and continuously just looking for every single nook and cranny and every opportunity to 
10 undermine, you know, the official narrative. I think it comes from --from decades of 
11 people losing faith in the institutions of democracy, combined with inflamed rhetoric that 
12 kind of takes advantage of those seeds of doubt and really nurtures them like a plant into, 
13 you know, a mix of a grift and a mix of a cult. 
14 Q Okay. And based on your experience with the Trump campaign after the 
15 election and now in your new role at the Secretary of State's office, you know, as it is as 
16 you have just said, a vocal minority, what do you think the impact is or has been of that 
17 type of disinformation having the power of the sort of the voice and the Office of the 
18 Presidency connected to promoting some of the disinformation? 
19 A Yeah. I mean, that was --that was kind of my break during the campaign 
20 was because, specifically going back to --we kind of broached over the topic. But I 
21 remember I was sitting there in our war room --I always call it a war room, even though 
22 that term has become bastardized --and, you know, someone's playing this clip of an 
23 election worker at the State Farm Arena, and it was like, look at what's going around the 
24 internet. And I remember looking at it and going, okay, like, I can see she's there. 
25 Okay. She's scanning ballots. Okay. She's pressing buttons on the machine after  34 
1 each batch is scanned and then re-scanning the same ballots. 
2 You know, to them that was like, okay, she's typing in some special code and 
3 hacking it. To me that said, okay, she's clearing out the totals because I can see that 
4 ballots are getting spit back, or something's happening. This is completely normal. 
5 And it was stuff like that that I was battling on the campaign. You know, I was 
6 still really, you know, keeping this --the faith alive that we'd win these runoffs, that there 
7 may be some legal opportunities. Because, you know, in other States, you had margins 
8 of 100,000. We did have a 10,000 margin. So that, you know, to me --especially after 
9 finding a recounts and an audit where there's ballots found in like three or four different 
10 counties that are, you know, over 1,000 ballots in just about every case. You know, 
11 there was some kind of, you know, okay, maybe there's something here, but a lot of what 
12 was pushing that was complete, just hot garbage. It was just complete hot garbage. 
13 Everything from, you know, the Dominion stuff. I mean, I was even looking through 
14 some of my emails, and thankfully, you know, even at that time, I'm going, you know, 
15 these allegations are not confirmed. These allegations have not been shown 
16 substantial, proved, or anything. You know, please go vote. 
17 And I think that's the biggest challenge is that, you know, while these kind of 
18 allegations coming from a place of, I guess, authority are harmful, one of the biggest 
19 things it does is it depresses turnout. And I think for, you know, as me, a Republican, 
20 that's bad, because it hurts --it only hurts our team. But I think in a larger scale, it does 
21 hurt the larger functioning of democracy, without a doubt. Without a doubt. 
22 Q Thanks for that. Yeah, absolutely. 
23 So you're recalling the State Farm video allegations and the, what's that, the 
24 suitcases allegations, and the Dominion ones. At the time when you were working on 
25 the Trump campaign, did you tell anyone --you know, I think you were remembering  35 
1 some emails about saying, you know, this Dominion stuff hasn't been verified. Who did 
2 you communicate with about that on the campaign? 
3 A I don't specifically remember speaking with anyone on the campaign about 
4 these sorts --because this sort of stuff was not coming from the campaign, per se, but 
5 you had kind of your, I guess, you'd say surrogates that were really pushing a lot of this 
6 sort of stuff. So I don't remember any specific discussions about, you know, this sort of 
7 stuff with anyone on the campaign, per se. 
8 But I know that, you know, locally, I had some concerns because, you know, 
9 during Senate hearings and stuff like that, you know, I had pushed for like, you know, 
10 bring this witness forth because he was a poll watcher and he witnessed an actual, 
11 tangible error. You know, a poll worker made an error right in front of him, you know, 
12 da, da, da, da, da, you know, something that --there was a decimal place missing, and 
13 instead of 1,000 votes, it got 10,000 votes. You know, it was corrected and these sorts 
14 of things, but, you know, to highlight the actual things that need to be worked out in 
15 election administration. 
16 And then meanwhile, you know, unbeknownst to me, you know, folks parade in 
17 and say, you know, shredding trucks are, you know, shredding ballots, and stuff like that. 
18 And I remember chasing those down at the time and going, no, those are envelopes. 
19 Like, those are ballot envelopes. Those are innocuous pieces of paper, and stuff like 
20 that. So, I mean, it was a lot of frustration. 
21 But I think at the time I kept a lot of that kind of internally to the Georgia team, 
22 and then kept a lot --kept some of it to myself. Because, you know, there was kind of a 
23 spirit decor, which is, you know, focus on what we can actually find and ignore the BS. 
24 Because people are going to say whatever they're going to say. And, you know, misled 
25 activists are a dime a dozen sometimes.  36 
1 Q Okay. Understood. 
2 The other thing I wanted address with you --I do want to go back and just ask you 
3 a couple more kind of, you know, factual questions about --
4 
5 
6 
7 A 
Q 
A 
Q Yeah. 
--the phone calls and everything leading up to the 14th. But -­
Yeah. 
--on the big picture, you know, you said that in this category of things that 
8 you learned about later were going on that you didn't know at the time, in addition to the 
9 kind of coordinated harassment that you identified and the campaign to get the State 
10 legislature to convene a special session, did you ever learn about a connection between 
11 January 6th and the Joint Session of Congress and these alternate slates of electors? 
12 A I did. After the campaign, it became clear to me --and I will say this 
13 unabashedly --it became to me clear to me afterwards that I don't think Rudy Giuliani's 
14 intent was ever about legal challenges. It was clear to me that he was working with 
15 folks like John Eastman and wanted to put pressure on the Vice President to accept these 
16 slates of electors just regardless, without any approval from a governor, without any 
17 approval from, you know, the voters or a court, or anything like that. But that was, you 
18 know, afterwards, for sure. 
19 
20 Q 
A What gave you that impression? 
I mean, connecting dots and kind of seeing. I mean, you know, there were 
21 unscrupulous actors that I met on the campaign. I've met them in every campaign. 
22 And, you know, I've been following this for 18 months, and it's clear to me that there was 
23 some people that had some crazy, crazy theories. But, you know, I had never really --I'd 
24 never heard of John Eastman. I remember he testified at a Senate hearing. I just 
25 thought he was kind of weird. He had some weird background, like, fake background,  37 
1 and had an earpiece in, and I was just kind of like, who is this clown? But, you know, as 
2 far as like getting an Eastman memo or anything like that prior, no. 
3 Q When you --those Eastman memos, when they came out publicly after, you 
4 know, January 6th, did you read them? 
5 
6 A 
Q I did. I did. 
And what did you think --particular to this issue of the alternate or 
7 contingent slates of electors, when you read those Eastman memos, did you see a 
8 connection between what you had been asked to do convening these electors and what 
9 he had recommended? 
10 A I thought that it was --that there certainly was a connection. I don't know 
11 if at the time that had been the kind of shadow, if you will, strategy. And we were just, 
12 you know, kind of useful idiots or rubes at that point. You know, just kind of do it and 
13 get --I don't know if that had been done. 
14 Part of me --you know, a strong part of me really feels that it's just kind of, as the 
15 road continued and as it was failure, failure, failure, that that got formulated as what do 
16 we have on the table, let's just do it. I don't know if I think or believe that the strategy 
17 on December 14th was the same as the strategy, at least in their eyes, on January 6th. 
18 But seeing that link was pretty obvious to me afterwards. 
19 Q And how did that make you feel about your having been involved in the 
20 alternate electors meeting in Georgia once you saw those memos and thought that there 
21 was a link? 
22 
23 A 
Q I was ashamed. I was ashamed. 
And now after what we've told you today about the select committee's 
24 investigation about the conclusion of the professional lawyers on the campaign staff, 
25 Justin Clark, Matt Morgan, and Josh Findlay, about their unwillingness to participate in  38 
1 the convening of these electors, how does that contribute to your understanding of these 
2 issues? 
3 A I'm angry. I am angry because I think --I think in a sense, you know, no one 
4 really cared if --if people were potentially putting themselves in jeopardy. I think that 
5 there should have been a --you know, I remember towards the end of the campaign 
6 getting HQ legal memos, you know, preserve these documents related to Dominion. 
7 Preserve this. You know, don't do this. Don't go --I wish there would have been one 
8 put out that said, hey, just in case you're asked about electors, just say no. I feel like 
9 that should have happened. And part of it is because that didn't happen. I was relying 
10 on the advice from people on the ground here in Georgia saying this is kosher, proceed. 
11 Q All right. And what do you think about the electors themselves who, you 
12 know, were given documents to sign on the 14th? How did --your understanding of 
13 these issues now in hindsight, how does that make you feel about that process? 
14 A I would feel cheated, but also, you know, some of those people are hoorah 
15 (ph). Some of those people I feel like would --there's some --and I don't mean this in a 
16 disparaging sense towards them, but I think that there are some people that would not 
17 care, that, you know, wanted to ride that and support their President, you know, to the 
18 very end. But I would feel that if I had signed them, that I did not have the complete 
19 piece of --the complete picture, and I would be --I would --I would be angry. 
20 Q Understood. On the topic --you know, our investigation has also 
21 uncovered information --documents that indicate that in other States where Trump 
22 electors were being convened, that electors requested indemnification for potential legal 
23 challenges. And in at least two instances requested changes to the language on the 
24 certificate so that the certificate that they were signing would reflect the fact that 
25 their --the vote was contingent in some manner, rather than a document that says, we  39 
1 are the duly elected electors --
Yeah. 2 
3 A 
Q --from the State. Did anyone share any of those --communications about 
4 those issues with you about indemnification or about potential changes to the language 
5 of the certificate to make the contingent nature clear on its face? 
6 A No, those concerns were never raised, but I passed the documents to the 
7 State party. And I know that the change was suggested of putting, you know, 
8 Republican Party, making it clear that this was a Georgia Republican Party thing. I think 
9 that that may have come from Alex Kaufman. I'm not sure, but I know that that 
10 discussion was had to make it clearly identified as Republican. 
11 Q Okay. Do you know if that was implemented in the documents that were 
12 signed in Georgia? 
13 A I know that it said, you know, David Shafer, chairman, Georgia Republican 
14 Party, and then there is the electoral college. 
15 Q Okay. Okay. Thanks. 
16 So there's one other kind of issue or, you know, discussion in advance of the 
17 electors meeting that I wanted to raise with you that has, particularly of late, become a 
18 focus of some of the media reporting around this issue involving yourself, and that is the 
19 request for this process to be conducted in secrecy. 
20 So tell us --I can pull up a document if it's helpful, but I think you would --
21 
22 
23 A 
Q I know that you don't need to. I know the email well. 
You know the document quite well at this point. I understand that. 
So as has been recently reported, you sent an email that included a request for 
24 this process to occur in, you know, complete secrecy. And I wanted to ask you to give us 
25 your understanding of what you were told about that and what you meant when you  40 
1 wrote that. 
2 A Yeah. I mean, it is quite innocuous. The secrecy element simply was 
3 because with everything happening around the Capitol --I don't know this to be a 
4 hundred percent true or not --but we were under the impression that the Capitol's 
5 access was limited due to COVID, as well as it being the certification, you know, on 
6 December 14th that the Capitol was closed. And just about every day there had been 
7 protests and counterprotests around the Capitol. I mean, people were open carrying 
8 firearms from both sides. 
9 I remember specifically there was a group called the Not Fucking Around Coalition, 
10 which is kind of a --kind of leftist organization, as well as your armed Stop the Stealers. 
11 And there had been some --I mean, you know, officials were getting death threats. It 
12 was not great at the Capitol. 
13 But, again, going back to what we had seen that we had to be in the Capitol at this 
14 time, and the concern was that, you know, had a bunch of Republicans shown up, that 
15 this would not be allowed to proceed. That there would be, you know, interruptions, 
16 protests, you know, people just like haranguing us so --you know, to meet in secret. 
17 And then, you know, I know that I proposed a press release following it. I know 
18 Chairman Shafer had opened it up to media, and it had been well reported on. But the 
19 secrecy element was simply get the people on the bus and make sure that they're there. 
20 Q Okay. Got it. Do you remember --I think you referred earlier to 
21 participating in one phone call with electors from other States. Is that right? 
22 
23 
24 
25 A 
Q 
A 
Q Yes. 
Do you remember when that occurred? 
Sometime over the weekend, perhaps. 
Over the weekend. Okay. Let's see, I just wanted to bring up an email to  41 
1 ask about that. 
2 So it's exhibit 17, I believe, -if you can pull it up. 
3 So, Mr. Sinners, again, this is one of the emails that you shared with us. This one 
4 is from Sunday, December 13th, from Ken Chesebro to yourself and to Mike Roman. 
5 And this is Mr. Chesebro conveying to you that, quote, The mayor wants to keep this 
6 quiet until after all voting is done. 
7 
8 A 
Q Uh-huh. 
Do you remember this? Did you have a conversation around here that 
9 would give you an understanding of what it was that Mayor Giuliani was asking here? 
10 A Not particularly. As you may have heard --I guess that's just --I mean, 
11 there was a lot of chatter. My understanding was there were multiple people, you 
12 know, calling from D.C. about this, a lot of wires getting crossed. It was kind of --we had 
13 a phone call with the lawyer/reporter Christina Bobb. And my understanding was that 
14 was, you know, to get some media coverage. Again, going back to what I didn't really 
15 understand what OAN was at that point. But we had had a call about that. And I 
16 understood her to be working with the mayor, with Mayor Giuliani. And, yeah, I mean, 
17 there were --there was different --diff---the situation was fluid would be the best --
18 Q Is the phone call that you had with Ms. Bobb, is that the same one that you 
19 were referring to that had other States' electors on it, or is it --
20 
21 
22 A 
Q 
A [Inaudible.] 
Same one. Okay. 
I don't know if it was States' electors, but, like, either the campaign staff or 
23 the State party staff that was shepherding in each State. 
24 Q Yeah, thanks for that clarification. That's what I meant. I agree. I think 
25 it was a meeting that was of the organizers rather than the electors themselves. There  42 
1 might be some overlap there between folks that were involved as, you know, on both 
2 sides. 
Right. 
Do you remember Mayor Giuliani speaking on that call? 3 
4 
5 A 
Q 
A I don't, solely because I don't remember ever speaking or hearing from him. 
6 I mean, it's possible. I just know that I was --you know, a lot of friends were asking me 
7 about what --you know, what is going on in Georgia, da, da, da, da. And just looking 
8 through my texts and my communication, I feel like I would have said to somebody, uh, 
9 guys, I just got off a conference call with Rudy Giuliani, or some --and I don't have any of 
10 that. So I don't --I don't --I don't think so. I just don't recall any phone call where 
11 Rudy was a part. 
12 Q Got it. And just now with the benefit of hindsight, so both your own 
13 impressions and conversations after January 6th, plus our discussion here today, do you 
14 have any different view about Mayor Giuliani asking for this to take place in secret, keep 
15 it quiet until after all the voting is done? Any different view today than you did at the 
16 time? 
17 A Not particularly. I mean, I feel like every conversation I had was basically 
18 like, you know --this is not my opinion per se. But like, you know, if the Democrats find 
19 out about this, they will try to shut it down, or if the protesters find out, you know, they 
20 will try to shut it down. And I feel like, you know, there was validity to that. But I don't 
21 think the --I don't think the keeping it quiet until after voting is done was, you know, let's 
22 hide this, let's operate in secrecy, no one can find out type thing. 
23 Because, again, you know, we'd had a call with --about getting the press out for 
24 this. You know, press releases were discussed. So I don't really --you know, I don't 
25 think that there was a real secrecy element in the sense of something's off here, we have  43 
1 to be quiet about it, per se. I don't --
2 Q Yeah. So, yeah, is it fair to say that you think that the secrecy, you keep it 
3 quiet until after the voting is done, that that was less motivated by, you know, wanting to 
4 hide something that --from view entirely because there's some concern about --
5 
6 A 
Q 
7 anything --
8 
9 A 
Q Right. 
--what we were doing but rather, instead, a concern that we don't want 
Right. 
Yeah. --we don't want anything to interfere with our ability to complete 
10 this task. And once we have, we are okay with it being public. But until we do, we 
11 want it to --until we get in there and get the votes cast, we don't want anyone to know 
12 about it. Is that fair? 
13 A Yeah, that's fair. 
14 Q Okay. This is consistent with some information that the committee has 
15 received about other States, one in particular where the electors had concerns about 
16 obtaining access to the Capitol and --a different State --and considered sleeping 
17 overnight in the Capitol so that they would not be prevented from entry. Any reaction 
18 to that? 
19 
20 A 
Q 
21 discussed. 
22 
23 A 
Q I mean, that's dedication, I guess. 
It ultimately was a plan that was not carried to fruition, but nonetheless 
Yeah. 
Okay. So I think --let me check my notes real quick, but I think that's all I 
24 have for you about this. 
25 I think you said this earlier, Mr. Sinners, that you had a brief interaction with Mr.  44 
1 Eastman in connection with his testimony in the Georgia State Senate committee hearing 
2 in December. Did you have any other substantive conversations with him? 
3 A That would be incorrect. I did not have --I never had an interaction with 
4 him. I was simply cc'd on an email that, looking back, I realized it was from him. 
5 never spoke with him directly or had any communication with him. 
6 Q Oh, thanks for the clarification. It was the email that I was referring to. 
7 should have been more clear, so --
8 
9 
10 A 
Q 
A Right. 
Yes. 
I was just cc'd on that. And, you know, looking back at the significance of 
11 it, you know, I felt that it was --it was unrelated to the electors, but I felt that it was 
12 important to include to you. 
13 Q Okay. Yeah, I appreciate that. Okay. 
14 Mr. Sinners, there were a couple of other things that came up in our conversation, 
15 our informal conversation last week, that I wanted to discuss with you on the record, if 
16 you're amenable to that. One was an interaction that you described having with a staff 
17 member for Representative Hice related to some, you know, election-related mis-or 
18 disinformation. Do you remember that? 
19 
20 A 
Q I do. 
All right. Can you describe briefly for us what occurred and what the 
21 relevance was to you? 
22 A Sure. The relevance was, to me, that I had --it was one of those cases 
23 where --you know, a big part of what my job was, at least in my opinion, following the 
24 election was trying to keep things together, trying to influence some order. Because 
25 post-election, there were so many factions. No one trusted one another, room to room  45 
1 within the building. And, you know, I was whispering between a number of different, 
2 shall we say, camps. 
3 And one of the camps that, you know, I really came to --I don't want to say 
4 despise --came to resent was that, you know, when we latch on to something that is 
5 patently false, it hurts actual evidence from being --you know, it hurts correcting actual 
6 failures in election administration. Election administration is very fluid, and you identify 
7 mistakes, you identify irregularities. But when someone comes out and says something 
8 just wild-eyed and knowingly false, something that can be disproven just like that, it 
9 makes me angry. 
10 And I remember an interaction --you know, in our call center, our war room, we 
11 had everybody from people who had just gotten involved with elections, you know, 
12 because of a guy that's running, they felt really passionate, to people who were elected 
13 officials coming out, to people that had --you know, were financiers and bank rollers that 
14 wanted to help. So you had this kind of unique blend coming in and people with various 
15 connections. 
16 I don't remember specifically who it was, but someone had approached me and 
17 said, would you be willing to take a phone call from a Member of Congress? And I said 
18 sure. Absolutely. Like, yes. And it was Jody Hice's office, and I believe it was their 
19 communications director, I don't remember their name, but I know that it was a staffer in 
20 D.C. for Congressman Hice. And they were asking me about a Gateway Pundit article 
21 that had come out saying that there was a forensic audit, quote/unquote, of a voting 
22 machine in Ware County, and is there any validity to this. 
23 And I remember --I want to say that I reached out directly to the election 
24 supervisor of Ware County. I remember his name is Carlos Nelson. And I was like, is 
25 there any truth to this? And he's like, absolutely not. And, you know, doing due  46 
1 diligence, I looked at the audit file. And basically what the article was alleging was, for 
2 the sake of argument, let's say 27 votes showed up for Biden, and then after the recount 
3 or hand audit, or however you want to phrase it, those 27 votes had been put in the 
4 Trump column. And that the people at the Gateway Pundit were saying this is evidence 
5 of the Dominion vote system flipping votes. 
6 Well, I mean, you can have just a basic --a basic rudimentary knowledge of 
7 election administration to understand that that is not evidence of vote flipping. That is 
8 evidence of human error, our human diligence correcting --correcting something in an 
9 audit; 27 votes moving from one column --it means someone counted differently or the 
10 machine count may have been off. 
11 Voting machines do come up with slightly different numbers. It's just a fact of 
12 life. It's how you feed the ballots. It's if the ballots can be read properly. I mean, it 
13 is --but, you know, they're within a 99.99999 percent degree of accuracy. And I had 
14 explained that to the staffer that, no, this was not evidence of a vote flipping, da, da, da, 
15 da, da. You know, this is a huge nothing burger. And I remember, you know, an hour 
16 later, I started hearing about this more because the Congressman had tweeted out that 
17 article, following me essentially saying, no, do not run for this. 
Q Okay. Understood. Thank you. 18 
19 
20 And do you remember approximately when that conversation took place? 
A I cannot even give you a date or a --I mean, it was just a blur. I cannot --I 
21 assume that it would be whatever date that tweet was sent. 
22 
23 Q 
A Yeah. We could --
Yeah. I assume it would be within 24 hours. And my recollection serves 
24 me that I was like, I had just gotten off the phone with this guy. So within --within the 
25 proximate.  47 
1 Q Got it. Okay. But it was in the time period between the election and 
2 January 6th. Is that fair? 
3 A I would have to --yes. Yes. 
4 Q Okay. Okay. Thank you. 
Check my notes real quickly here. I am cognizant of the time. 5 
6 Oh, there is one other small detail about the electors process that you mentioned 
7 to me informally, Mr. Sinners, that I just wanted to touch base on. We had talked 
8 earlier about Mr. Barrett, the RNC political director, being somewhat aware of the 
9 process, but it doesn't sound like much involved. You mentioned something about him 
10 giving you a token of his appreciation for having participated in the process afterwards. 
11 Is that something --have I described it fairly to you? 
12 
13 
14 A 
Q 
A That's fair. 
Yeah. 
I would say this about Brian that, you know, his knowledge had reinforced 
15 the notion to me that this was something the RNC wanted to do quietly. He did give me 
16 a bottle of liquor. I felt like at the time --and still feel that way --I don't think there was 
17 an ulterior motive of like, hey, you know, you're going to need this, you poor schmuck, 
18 but it was more of like a, you know, this was such a nightmare. You know, as you can 
19 see, all the wires were just crossed, and it's like, you know, you pulled it out, you got it 
20 done. 
21 And I think there was also some guilt on his aspect, because, you know, simply 
22 put, Brian had kind of thrown me under the bus a little bit. Well, I don't want to say a 
23 little bit, a lot of bit, just with moving toward the runoff and my position. There 
24 had --you know, as we explained informally, there was, you know, some discussion 
25 among higher party officials that basically my EDO operation was the reason why we lost  48 
1 Georgia, which, you know, you hear that enough and you start believing it. Although, I 
2 completely laugh at that, and I say, hey, I actually recruited the most poll watchers and 
3 volunteer attorneys in the history of the State, and I was the only guy doing it. Whereas 
4 the other team probably had about 15 to 20 full-time staffers doing the same thing I was 
5 doing myself. 
6 But, yeah, I mean, Barrett was not involved. We reported to him, we gave him 
7 status updates, but he was not intimately involved, to say the least. 
8 Q Okay. Okay. Thanks for that. 
9 Mr. Sinners, there was one other vignette that you shared with we informally 
10 about a senior kind of figure from the Trump campaign coming to Georgia and taking a 
11 meeting in the headquarters that you were not a part of, but that you learned about the 
12 content. Is that something that you're willing to discuss with us today? 
13 A Yeah, I'd be happy to. 
14 Q Okay. All right. So tell me --informally you recounted to me a story 
15 about a meeting that Donald Trump, Jr., had in Georgia shortly after the election. Can 
16 you tell us more of what you remember about that? 
17 A I was not there, but I think it sets the tone for kind of understanding where 
18 the leadership of the State party was mentally and strategically. Again, I was not there, 
19 so I cannot confirm the details. But it is my understanding that Don Jr. came down a 
20 couple days after the election. And there was a big divide between, do we latch on to 
21 Trump or do we run these Senate races independently? And there was a huge divide, a 
22 huge schism. And it divided room by room to room. Again, you know, there's 
23 probably 10 different camps within that building, each with their own opinion, and I was 
24 kind of trying to kind of circumnavigate the politics and keep my head down. 
25 But it is my understanding that there was a threat made by Don Jr., you know, that  49 
1 if you abandon my dad and do not, you know, say he won the election --this goes into 
2 calling, you know, for the Secretary of State to resign, this goes into calling --to teaming 
3 up with, you know, the Lin Woods of the world, and stuff like that. --that if you do not 
4 support my dad 100 percent, we are going to tank your Senate races. 
5 And I know that this exchange happened because, you know, it was 
6 discussed --I'm not sure who was in the room, but, you know, the way I like to put it is 
7 that if someone used too much coffee creamer one morning on the first floor, the fifth 
8 floor would know about it by lunch. It was just one of those things that it was common 
9 knowledge that, yes, like, the neutering was --well, I don't --let's not say that --but it was 
10 the understanding that Georgia is going to double down on whatever is said, however it's 
11 said, or suffer the consequences. 
12 
13 Q Okay. Thanks for that. 
And you've told us that you just generally knew this to be the case. Do you have 
14 any memories of specific individuals that you talked to that --from whom you learned 
15 about the contents of this meeting? 
16 A I don't --I don't really recollect specifics. During that time, everybody was 
17 going out --and, you know, the stress was real. We were going out every night drinking, 
18 you know, blowing off steam. And it was kind of like a daily recap of what's happening 
19 in the world, what's going on. And I just remember that as being one of the things that's 
20 like, wow. 
21 And I'll say this, that I saw that meeting happen. It happened in a room that was 
22 directly across from the call center. And I remember seeing both of them walk in and 
23 both of them walk out. And the facial expressions of both told me everything that I 
24 needed to know about what happened. 
25 Q Understood. So who were the individuals that you saw go into the  50 
1 meeting? 
2 A I mean, I remember Chairman Shafer, I remember Don Jr. Kim Guilfoyle 
3 was there. I don't know if she was in the meeting. And then a couple people I didn't 
4 know. I'd be speculating at this point. Yeah, I'd be speculating at this point. 
5 Q Okay. But you certainly remember Donald Trump, Jr., and David Shafer. 
6 Is that right? 
I certainly remember. Yeah. 7 
8 A 
Q Okay. And when you were remembering the facial expressions, you said, of 
9 both people when they left the room, were you referring to Don Jr. and Mr. Shafer? 
10 A Shafer looked like he'd seen a ghost. 
11 Q Okay. Were there representatives of the Senate campaigns present for 
12 that meeting? 
13 A It is possible. There is another meeting that happened, I want to say Friday 
14 morning. I want to say this might have been Thursday night following the election or 
15 Friday night. Thursday --there was --there was a --whenever there was a press 
16 conference in the parking lot with --featuring Don Jr., that was the night. And then I 
17 want to say the next morning there was like an all-hands meeting between --1 mean, it 
18 was just a complete mess. I was not a part of that. It was happening next door. 
19 was taking calls at that point. And that was like an all hands --I mean, anybody and 
20 everybody was there, and it was just a complete nightmare. They'd even opted to move 
21 and have a select group of people offsite meet because it just became such a --such a 
22 zoo. 
23 Q Okay. So just so I understand the events, the order of them, you're 
24 remembering that Donald Trump, Jr., gave a press conference in the parking lot outside of 
25 the Georgia GOP headquarters. Is that right?  51 
Yes. That is correct. 1 
2 A 
Q And that was the same day that you remember him having the meeting with 
3 David Shafer that you've described to us? 
4 A Within the same --I want to say it was before the press conference, and it 
5 was, you know, within a 30-minute window. And, you know, if I had to speculate and 
6 characterize how it was, it was, I'm giving you a message, you got the message, all right, 
7 let's go out on camera and do it. 
8 Q 
9 that right? 
10 
11 A 
Q So Mr. Shafer was there with Donald Trump, Jr., at the press conference. Is 
I believe that to be the case. 
Okay. And then the all-hands meeting that you referred to taking place the 
12 next day, that included the representatives of the Senate campaigns, and you described it 
13 as a complete mess. Was that related to the kind of directive that you've described 
14 Donald Trump, Jr., conveying? 
15 A I think that there were some people that were probably on board with that 
16 directive, but then there were people that were, you know, kind of rightly focused on the 
17 runoffs. That meeting is extensively reported in a Greg Bluestein's book "Flipped." 
18 And I can say that, you know, I was not a part of that meeting. I just know a couple 
19 excerpts of what I've been told. But it was, you know, you kind of had your 
20 establishment, and then you had, you know, some of your more, shall we say, interesting, 
21 you know, Members of Congress, shall we say, like the Marjorie Greene types, and, you 
22 know, your people that were, you know, dispatched by the White House, kind of 
23 coming --coming to head. 
24 Q Okay. Great. And my colleague very helpfully confirmed for us while 
25 we've been talking that the press conference you're referring to took place on Thursday,  1 November 5th, just 2 days after the election. Is that --
2 
3 A 
Q That would make perfect sense. Yeah. 
Okay. Okay. Got it. I don't have it at my fingertips, but hearing you 
4 describe this reminded me of another circumstance in Georgia that I remember that 52 
5 there was a story, some reporting that, after the Senate candidates, Senators Purdue and 
6 Loeffler had called for the resignation of Secretary of State Raffensperger. And I think 
7 there was some reporting around there that it was connected --
8 
9 A 
Q Right. 
--to some encouragement or direction from outside of Georgia from 
10 political, you know, sort of --
11 
12 
13 A 
Q 
A Right. 
--chapters in D.C. Do you remember that? 
I remember it, but I do not have any specific recollection. One of the things 
14 that I will say kind of put me in a bad spot is I --you know, I was the guy in charge of 
15 voting for the campaign. So, naturally, I'm going to speak to the voting people from the 
16 State of my same political party pretty regularly. And I'd found the Secretary of State's 
17 staff that I interacted with to be attentive. There were some, you know, hang-ups. 
18 There were some things that we --that we the campaign or we the Georgia GOP wanted 
19 done that did not happen that kind of angered, especially Chairman Shafer. 
20 But I was --I was just not --I was just not there as far as seeing this direct --you 
21 know, maybe as somebody who was scapegoated, maybe I didn't like scapegoating. 
22 don't know. But I had felt that a lot of this was scapegoating. Because there was 
23 definitely a sense of lining up and putting the loss on the heels of decisions made by the 
24 Secretary of State that ultimately, you know, I think benefited Republicans and had been 
25 spun in a way to suggest that there was some corruption or some malfeasance otherwise.  1 
2 Q 
A 53 
Okay. 
But I was not aware of those conversations. I know where they were 
3 coming from. You know, Chairman Shafer did not like the secretary, I think for political 
4 reasons, I think reasons going back before this election. I know that some of the Trump 
5 advisers from Georgia did not --you know, had a icy relationship at best, and so I think 
6 there was some tension there, for sure. 
7 Q Okay. So I just wanted to clarify one thing about the --what you described 
8 as the threat that was conveyed by Donald Trump, Jr., just a couple of days after the 
9 election. I think you said that if --that the message was if you abandon President Trump 
10 and don't say that he won the election or don't support him, then we are going to tank 
11 your Senate races. Is that an accurate summary? 
12 
13 A 
Q I would say that is an accurate summary of my understanding. 
Okay. And what did you understand the practical effect of them asking for 
14 not abandoning President Trump and saying --continuing to say that he won the 
15 election? What did you see after that point that either confirmed or disputed whether 
16 the Georgia Republican Party and the Senate candidates followed that directive? 
17 A I mean, it seemed to me that the Senate candidates largely chose to double 
18 down rather than, you know, suggest any sort of independence. And, you know, it 
19 became clear to me after a while that this was not going to be a winning strategy. But 
20 they were doubling down. They were really trying to quirk that base that believed this, 
21 and I think through other avenues had just been spoon-fed just ridiculous conspiracy 
22 theories. 
23 You know, I still speak to people who I know that believe just bonkers stuff. And, 
24 yeah, I mean, I think that that was part of that. I think the Senators, you know, had 
25 gotten the memo that this was the way the campaign was going to go, and they feared  1 Trump. 
2 
3 - Okay. Anything? 
I do not have any other questions for you, Mr. Sinners. Is there anything else 
4 that you would like to say or address? 
5 Mr. Sinners. You know, just that when this is all over, I hope that I get --you 
6 know, I feel like I'm one of the good guys. You know, I might have had a moment of, 54 
7 shall we say, a moment of muddled judgment, but if I can be of any help, this is important 
8 to me, the work you're doing is important to this country, and I'm happy to help in the 
9 future any way that I'm needed. 
10 - Well, first of all, thank you very much for accommodating us, for 
11 taking the time to speak with us today. Thank you for those kind words, which are 
12 always helpful to hear. But most importantly --
13 
14 Mr. Sinners. Sometimes you hear a whole lot and you start doubting yourself. 
Thank you. Seems like you have been in those shoes. 
15 But I just want to say too, I mean, our committee is putting on its public 
16 presentation this month, and I think you will continue to see something that has already 
17 emerged in the presentation, and that is that the select committee believes that we came 
18 very close to a precipice for our democracy. But one of the things that held --or one of 
19 the most important factors in holding our democracy together were courageous officials. 
20 And because this was a Republican campaign, you know, almost all of them were 
21 Republicans. And we will be highlighting several people that the committee believes are 
22 heroes, that are Republican officials, that stood up for their oath and for democracy and 
23 what, you know, we think did the right thing. 
24 And, in general, I mean, that has been a real theme of our investigation. These 
25 are --you know, oftentimes, and I think I would say this about you, you know, people  55 
1 doing their jobs, put in very difficult circumstances. And I think what is clear from our 
2 conversation today, didn't have the full picture of what was going on with the campaign. 
3 So we, again, really appreciate your cooperation and your willingness to assist the 
4 committee. Thank you for your time today. And I hope we will not interrupt your 
5 regularly scheduled June or summer any further, but I will give you a call if we need to. 
6 
7 Mr. Sinners. Absolutely. Are we off record now? 
Oh, yes. Let's go off the record now. 
8 [Whereupon, at 12:12 p.m., the interview was adjourned, subject to the call of the 
9 chair.]  1 
2 
3 Certificate of Deponent/Interviewee 
4 I have read the foregoing __ pages, which contain the correct transcript of the 
5 answers made by me to the questions therein recorded. 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 Witness Name 
Date 56 