1 
2 
3 
4 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE 
5 JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL, 
6 U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
7 WASHINGTON, D.C. 
8 
9 
10 
11 INTERVIEW OF: JAMES RAHM, Ill 
12 
13 
14 
15 Friday, March 4, 2022 
Washington, D.C. 1 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 The interview in the above matter was held via Webex, commencing at 10:04 a.m.  1 
2 Appearances: 
3 
4 
5 For the SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE 
6 THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL: 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT 
CHIEF CLERK 
INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
14 For the COMMITTEE ON HOUSE ADMINISTRATION: 
15 
16 JIM LEVINE, COUNSEL 
17 
18 
19 For JAMES RAHM, Ill: 
20 
21 HEATHER SHANER 2  1 
2 
3 - Let's go on the record. It is 10:04 a.m. on March 4th. 
Good morning. This is the transcribed interview of James Douglas Rahm, 111, 
4 conducted by the House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the 
5 United States Capitol pursuant to House Resolution 503. 
6 At this time, I'd ask the witness to please state your full name and then spell your 
7 last name for the record. 
8 
9 
10 Mr. Rahm. James Douglas Rahm, 111, R-a-h-m. 
- Great. 
This will be a staff-led interview. Members of the committee may join at some 
11 point. I don't expect that to happen, but it's possible. 3 
12 And then, as I explained before, I'll be asking most of the questions. -might 
13 be asking some questions as well. And if a member joins, it's possible that they would 
14 ask a question also. 
15 And then, just for the record, speaking is- investigative counsel with 
16 the select committee. We've also got- also an investigative counsel. And 
17 the~ is also in the room, and he's a professional staff member with the select 
18 committee. 
19 We've got a couple of court reporters and other staff members that will be 
20 helping us with logistical things throughout the interview. 
21 And then also, Ms. Shaner, could I have you state your name for the record, 
22 counsel? 
23 
24 
25 Ms. Shaner. Heather Shaner, counsel for James Rahm, Ill. 
- Great. 
And then, James, I understand we will be addressing you as JD, short for James  4 
1 Douglas. 
2 As I mentioned, we've got a couple reporters on the line, court reporters. They'll 
3 be taking a transcription of the interview. So, to make their life a little bit easier, just try 
4 to wait until I finish asking a question before you begin your answer, and then I'll do the 
5 same thing, wait for you to finish your answer before I start a new question. It's just 
6 very hard for them to record when there's two people talking at the same time. 
7 Mr. Rahm. Of course. 
8 - And then, also kind of relatedly, they can only record verbal 
9 responses, so try not to shake your head yes or no. Use a verbal yes or no. And then 
10 if --you know, we all make that mistake sometimes, so if I need to, I might prompt you to 
11 use a verbal response. 
12 
13 Mr. Rahm. Okay. 
- And then today all we're asking of you is to provide complete 
14 answers to the best of your recollection. If a question I ask isn't clear, which happens 
15 sometimes, just ask me to rephrase the question or ask for clarification. Always happy 
16 to do that. And then, if you don't know the answer to a question, just simply say so. 
17 
18 Mr. Rahm. Okay. 
- There are a few kind of background or ground rules that we should 
19 go over before we get into questions. 
20 The first is that it's important that you understand that today is a voluntary 
21 interview. If at any time you want to stop speaking with us, that's your choice. 
22 Similarly, if at any point you need to take a break to talk to your counsel in private, 
23 just let us know and we can all take a break, turn off our cameras and mikes, and you can 
24 talk with Ms. Shaner if you need to. 
25 Does that make sense?  1 
2 Mr. Rahm. Yes. Thank you. 
- Great. 
3 While this interview is voluntary and it's not under oath, it's important that you 
4 understand that, because this is a formal congressional investigation, you're obligated 
5 under Federal law to tell the truth, the same as if you were speaking to FBI or DOJ. 
6 So it's unlawful to deliberately provide false information to Congress. For this 
7 interview, providing false information could result in criminal penalties for false 
8 statements. 
9 Do you understand that? 
10 Mr. Rahm. Okay. Yes, sir. 
11 
12 -Okay. 
And then also, you're not obligated to keep the fact of this interview or what we 
13 discuss confidential. You're free to tell whomever you wish that you met with us, 5 
14 including the prosecutor or the judge in your case, or you could tell nobody at all. That's 
15 totally your decision. 
16 Mr. Rahm. Okay. 
17 - And then also, I just want you to understand that the select 
18 committee is separate and distinct from the DOJ. We don't have any involvement in the 
19 prosecutions, and the DOJ is not a partner of the select committee in this investigation. 
20 Kind of similarly, the select committee is not a party to your criminal case and isn't 
21 agreeing to submit anything on your behalf to the judge, nor can we make any 
22 representations whether, if you tell the judge that you met us, that the judge will be more 
23 favorable to you at the end of your case during sentencing. 
24 
25 Mr. Rahm. Okay. 
- Does that make sense?  1 
2 Mr. Rahm. Yes, sir. 
- And then lastly, in general we will not be sharing our conversation 6 
3 with the DOJ. There are a couple possible exceptions to that. If we felt like you did not 
4 tell the truth during the interview, that could potentially trigger an obligation to share 
5 some of that information with the DOJ. Or if you gave us information about a crime that 
6 we don't think the DOJ is currently aware of, then that could also trigger a similar 
7 obligation. 
8 
9 
10 
11 Mr. Rahm. Understood. 
- Does that all make sense? Okay. 
Mr. Rahm. Yes. 
- Great. And then also, just let us know throughout the interview if 
12 you need a break at any point to use the bathroom, get some water, or just need a 
13 minute or two, and I'm happy to take a break at any point. 
14 
15 Mr. Rahm. Thank you. 
- Great. 
16 And then also, as I explained earlier, I'll be asking most of the questions, but-
17 or some others --other folks might jump in at different points and ask some follow-up 
18 questions as well. 
19 
20 
21 
22 Mr. Rahm. Okay. 
EXAMINATION 
BY 
Q Great. Then with that, I think we can start. And I just want to start with a 
23 little bit of background information about you. 
24 If you could just tell me how old you are and where you're from. 
25 A Twenty-seven, and I live in Atlantic City, New Jersey.  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 with? 7 
Q Okay. And did you grow up there? 
A No. I grew up in Philadelphia. 
Q Okay. How long have you been in Atlantic City? 
A Since about 2006 --or 2005, I believe. 
Q Okay. And before that were you in Philadelphia? 
A Yeah, south Philadelphia. 
Q Okay. And who --what's your living situation now? Who do you live 
9 A I was working and living in Philadelphia, but ever since COVID I've been living 
10 back with my mother in Atlantic City. 
11 Q Okay. And then can you give us a quick run-through of your educational 
12 background? 
13 A Yes. I've gone to Catholic school my whole life, including university, Holy 
14 Spirit High School in Absecon, New Jersey, and then La Salle University in Philadelphia. 
15 And I graduated with a bachelor degree in business administration. 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 Q Okay. And when was that that you graduated? 
A In 2017. 
Q And then I know you said that you are living with your mother. 
A Yes. 
Q Do your mother and father live together? 
A No, they do not. My father lives in Philadelphia. 
Q Okay. And are they divorced? 
A Yes. 
Q Okay. And then, sorry, you might have mentioned this, but what do you do 
25 now for a living?  8 
1 A Currently, I'm a DJ. That's like my main thing. And then I also do like the 
2 various like delivery services. I just started doing those actually, like it's like Grubhub 
3 and Shi pt and those kind of things. 
4 Q Okay. 
5 A I was doing construction full time in Philadelphia up until COVID kind of shut 
6 down the city. And then our company never survived COVID actually. So that's why 
7 I'm back in Atlantic City now. 
8 Q Let's move to kind of discussing the period just before the general election in 
9 2020 and kind of time before that. I just want to understand generally your level of 
10 political activity kind of heading into the general election. 
11 A I'm not very political at all. I do follow some things. But for me, I was 
12 more interested in, you know, just the craziness of it all, where, like, where you would 
13 see, you know, stuff in the streets. 
14 I just --you know, that's kind of the extent of my political stuff, is just watching 
15 videos online and --you know, I'm not very political as far as, you know, considering 
16 myself Democrat or Republican. I don't really like to just fall into one side, because I 
17 agree with things, you know, on all sides. 
18 So as far as like politics go, I'm not very heavily involved. I wish I knew more 
19 than I did actually. 
20 Q Okay. Leading --so during the 2020 election, would you say that you were 
21 a supporter of President Trump? 
22 A I'd say to make my parents happy. But, again, I didn't know enough to 
23 really, you know, make my own decision, I guess. But, yeah, just because my parents 
24 were, you know, I played with, you know, with that side of it a little, but I wouldn't 
25 consider myself like a Trump supporter.  1 
2 Q 
A 
3 of the 6th. 
4 Q Had you ever attended any Trump rallies during the election? 
No. That was my first, the, I guess, if you want to call it a rally, on the day 
Okay. Let's talk a little bit about kind of where you got your political and 
5 news information around that time, so the 2020 timeframe. 
6 Did you watch news on television? 
7 A I'd flick through the channels just to see the headlines. But at a certain 
8 point we didn't have cable anymore. I don't really remember exactly when that point 
9 was. So most of my information all came from like VouTube channels. And I would 
10 watch like, you know, the same channels that, you know, are on cable, have their own 
11 VouTube channels. So, you know, that's where the majority of my news, like, headlines 
12 would come from. 
13 
14 Q 
A Which --were there particular networks that you favored over others? 
I think just like ABC, NBC, whatever --honestly, whatever would pop up on 
15 my feed that would give me headlines. I wasn't like actually like searching up a specific 
16 news organization. I'd watch, you know --sometimes I'd watch different, you know, 
17 VouTubers if they popped up on my feed. But for the most part it was just like those 
18 little clips that the media organizations upload to VouTube. 
19 
20 Q 
A Okay. And most of the ones that --oh, sorry, go ahead. 
Oh, I was just going to say, I wasn't very --you know, it was just like maybe, 
21 you know, if I saw it here and there, I'd click on it. It wasn't like every day I was like, 9 
22 "Oh, what's going on today? What's going on today?" It was just kind of like whatever 
23 would pop up in my feed I would see the headlines. 
24 Q The networks that you mentioned, you know, ABC, NBC are sort of the 
25 primary couple, two or three networks. Did you ever look at VouTube news sources of,  10 
1 so, for example, like lnfoWars or Newsmax, some of the nonprimary networks? 
2 A I've seen them, yes. I don't think I was, you know, watching them too 
3 often. I do remember seeing them pop up here and there on my feed, you know. Not 
4 so much lnfoWars. Maybe years ago. 
5 
6 
7 And what was the other one you said? 
Q 
A Newsmax. 
Newsmax? I may have seen --I'm not extremely familiar with them, but I 
8 may have seen them pop up on my feed as well. 
9 - Go for it,_ 
10 BY 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q What about OAN? 
OAN? 
Yeah. One America Network, I believe, is the -­
I'm not very familiar with them either. 
That's fine. 
Andllllmight have been about to ask this. So is it fair to say then that you 
17 weren't searching for news, you were trusting the algorithm in sort of what popped up? 
18 A Yeah. I mean, if there was a specific topic I was more interested in on a, 
19 you know, on any given day, maybe I would go search up some more, maybe like on 
20 Google or something. 
21 But, yeah, I wasn't doing that much. I was just casually watching the headlines, I 
22 guess you could say. 
23 Q And do you have a sense of like how long you would spend watching the 
24 headlines or whatever per day? 
25 A I mean, a few minutes maybe. I mean, yeah, it didn't really interest me all  1 too much. 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 news? 
7 Q 
A 
Q 
A Got it. Thank you. 
Yep. 
BY 
How about any print publications, printed news, did you read any of your 
No, sir. 
8 Q Okay. And then how about using social media to kind of obtain news? 
9 Like did you use Facebook or anything like that? 
10 A No, I'm not very big on Facebook. I only use Facebook as far as like my DJ 
11 career to connect with people. 
12 But other than that, the only news I would ever see was on Snapchat, how they 11 
13 have like the Discover page and like different --and then, again, it's the major, you know, 
14 media organizations putting out their stories. 
15 So a lot of it was just the same exact thing you'd see on the YouTube videos just, 
16 you know, transformed into Snapchat. 
17 Q I have sort of a laundry list of some social media applications, and I'm just 
18 going to run through it quickly with you, and if you tell me if you used the app and then 
19 particularly if you used it for news purposes at all. 
20 
21 
22 
23 A 
Q 
A 
Q Okay. 
I think, I know you mentioned, and I know you've used Snapchat, right? 
Yeah. 
Okay. Did you, when you used Snapchat, did you ever post political 
24 content on Snapchat? 
25 A I don't think I ever have. I mean, maybe a meme or something that I  1 thought was funny. But I can't even --I can't remember me posting anything political. 
2 
3 
4 Q Okay. I know you said Face book mostly just for your DJ'ing. 
How about Reddit, did you use Reddit? 
A I maybe --I've never used like Reddit the app. I've come across Reddit 
5 when I've been googling certain questions not related to politics where a Reddit thread 
6 would pop up, but that was the extent of my Reddit use. 
7 
8 
9 Q 
A How about TikTok? 
No, I've never --I've never had TikTok. 
Q Okay. What about Twitter? 
I have Twitter, but I've --I never really use it. 
Let's see. You said VouTube was sort of your primary viewing source? 
Probably, yeah. 
Do you post content on VouTube? 12 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A I have posted stuff related to my DJ career and whatnot, and I think maybe a 
15 snowboarding video. But that would be all that I've posted. 
16 Q How about --so following specific individuals. Was there anybody that you 
17 followed that was kind of politically tied or motivated that you followed on any social 
18 media apps that we just discussed? 
19 
20 
21 media? 
22 A 
Q 
A Not that I can think of, honestly. 
How about President Trump, did you follow President Trump on any social 
I honestly don't know. I don't think so, but I don't know. I would say 
23 maybe I've seen his posts on Twitter back like years ago, like when I actually did like 
24 sometimes open it. But I haven't opened it in so long that I don't even know. 
25 But I don't think I was even following him. I think I maybe have just seen, you  13 
1 know --or maybe I've just seen it just from all the internet stuff that you see from his 
2 tweets, and I'm just like misremembering. But as far as like following, I don't really think 
3 so. 
4 Q Okay. Do you remember seeing any of President Trump's Twitter activity 
5 around the election or the time after, November, December, January? 
6 A Not really, no. I mean, like I said, maybe some of the things, you know, 
7 that it would be pulled from Twitter and put into some type of media, but not the actual 
8 Twitter feed itself. 
9 Q Okay. I want to ask some of your feelings about the general election. 
10 And just to preface these questions, really we're just interested in kind of understanding 
11 your mindset leading into January 6th, not meaning to kind of cast any disparagement on 
12 any particular views, just kind of want to understand what you thought of the general 
13 election. 
14 So did you, after the general election in early November 2020, did you think that 
15 the election had been stolen from President Trump? 
16 A No. I mean, I saw a bunch of things that, you know, people were trying to 
17 point at. And, you know, I did look into some things and try to see if anything was valid. 
18 But I just didn't find any --anything concrete with the little bit of stuff that I did see. 
19 So, yeah, there was nothing that led me to the immediate conclusion: Okay, this 
20 election was stolen. 
21 Q Did you participate in any political activities or any other sorts of rallies after 
22 the general election? 
23 A No. I think January 6th was the only political event or rally that I've ever 
24 been to in my life, as far as I can remember. 
25 Q All right. Any other kind of just general feelings about the election or  1 thoughts that you had at that time that you recall? 
2 A Not that I can recall. I mean, of course, you couldn't get away from the 
3 news, but I wasn't trying to pay attention too deliberately to it all. 
4 
5 
6 
7 Q Okay. And did you vote in the election? 
A Yes, I did. 
Q Okay. And do you mind saying who you voted for? 
A Yeah. I did vote for Trump. But, again, like I said about my parents, I 
8 really just did it to kind of make them happy. 
9 Q Okay. I think■■lhas a couple questions for you. 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 A Okay. 
BY-
Q Yeah, just in terms of your thoughts on whether the election was stolen. 
What kind of research did you do? 
A Honestly, I did such little stuff that I don't even really remember. I think 14 
15 maybe I've --you know, if I saw something, I'd try to go to like some type of fact-checking 
16 site or something like that just to kind of get some validation to see if that 
17 person --because maybe I was having like a discussion with somebody, and I thought that 
18 it was a little crazy what they were saying. 
19 I don't really remember the specifics, but I do remember there was a couple 
20 instances where I was like, "All right, let me look into this a little bit," and then didn't 
21 really find much. 
22 Q Do you have a sense of how long it took you to debunk some of those 
23 statements? 
24 A I mean, I'd say I only probably looked into things maybe a few minutes at a 
25 time. So I didn't really dive too deep. But it didn't lead me to want to look further, if  15 
1 that makes any sense. 
2 Q No, it does. So a few minutes was enough then for you to be able to have 
3 the conversation with whoever you were having the conversation with? 
4 A Yeah. And I don't even think I continued that conversation after that. 
5 think it was just something that I heard from somebody in a conversation, and then later, 
6 you know, I kind of looked up on it and then didn't really have any interest to look any 
7 further. 
8 
9 Q 
A Understood. Were these friends, family, both? 
I think it was a friend, yeah. I'm remembering a specific conversation, and 
10 I'm not remembering exactly who it was. 
11 
12 
13 Q 
A 
Q That's okay. 
But, yeah. 
And so you're remembering one specific conversation, but I think you 
14 mentioned a couple of times. 
15 How often --do you remember how many times you went and did this sort of 
16 fact-checking? 
17 A I'd say only like two or three maybe. 
18 Q Okay. Thank you. 
19 BY 
20 Q Let's talk about the decision to go to D.C. for the 6th. 
21 A Sure. 
22 Q When did you start considering that trip? 
23 A Well, it was my father's trip that he was going on, and he was going by 
24 himself. And he told me probably on like the 3rd or the 4th that he was thinking about 
25 going. And at that point it wasn't even really definite for him. And I told him, "I'm not  16 
1 really interested." 
2 And then I think it was maybe later on the 4th or earlier on the 5th, he said he like 
3 made this spur-of-the-moment decision to get a room and to go. 
4 And, you know, I really --I wasn't comfortable with letting him just go all by 
5 himself. I kind of started to feel bad because he was like looking for, you know, a 
6 companion to go with him, his son. And I just decided to go with him because I didn't 
7 want to see him go alone. 
8 One of the other big motivations for me was I had just purchased a Go Pro camera. 
9 Have you ever heard of that? 
10 Q Yeah, I have. 
11 A And after seeing like some of the stuff, like protests and stuff on like 
12 different VouTube videos, you know, kind of like how there would be like different 
13 counterprotesting clashes, I thought that that was kind of a possibility, and I thought it 
14 would be my chance to get, you know, a viral video with my GoPro. 
15 So not wanting my father to go alone, and then wanting to, you know, record 
16 some action, was my kind of main motivation for going to D.C. 
17 Q Okay. Can you describe for me sort of your dad's political activity to the 
18 extent you're aware of it? Was he more active than you were? 
19 A Definitely more active. I think he's definitely influenced a little easily, 
20 whereas me, like I need to kind of look into things a little bit more. 
21 So, yeah, I mean, he's definitely --he's not like crazy involved, but he definitely like 
22 has his strong views. 
23 Q Do you know if he had attended any other rallies or --either in the 
24 post-election period or before, like a Trump rally? 
25 A Not to my knowledge. I can't remember if he's ever attended anything.  17 
1 Q Okay. What was --as your dad was kind of describing his desire to go down 
2 to D.C. on the 4th and the 5th, what was he telling you about the rallies? What was his 
3 interest? 
4 A He just was --I think he was more interested in just like the amount of 
5 people that were going to be there and just thinking like he --like I could feel like it was a 
6 FOMO kind of thing, like he didn't want to miss out on it. 
7 That was my --he didn't say that, but that was kind of my feeling, because it was 
8 such just like an, "All right, I'm going to book a room and go." 
9 Yeah, that's as much as I know of like his actual like motivations. Obviously, he's 
10 a --he is a big Trump supporter, so he wanted to go support Donald Trump. But that 
11 was the extent of, as far as I know, his desires for wanting to go. 
12 Q Okay. You said he was a big Trump supporter. Were there any politicians 
13 that he particularly disliked that you heard him talking about? 
14 A Not that I can remember by name. I mean, you know, he's had comments 
15 here and there. I don't really remember the specifics though. 
16 
17 Q Okay. 
A Like I said, if I knew politics a little bit more, I might be able to remember 
18 certain names, but I don't know as much as I probably should. 
19 
20 
21 Q How about Vice President Pence, did you ever hear him talk about him? 
A Not that I can remember, no. 
Q So it was, you think, later on the 4th or the 5th that he ended up booking a 
22 hotel and making the final decision to go down to D.C.? 
23 A Yeah, I think it was probably like early --earlier on the 5th that I finally made 
24 like the decision to go. 
25 Q Okay.  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 - -do you have a question? 
- Yes. Sorry, I'm having computer problems. Can you all hear me? 
- We can hear you. 
Mr. Rahm. Yes. 
BY 
Q Sorry, my internet cut out and my computer had some problems. So I 
7 apologize if you already answered these questions, JD. 18 
8 But I'm interested in sort of your sense of trying to get a viral video. Did you talk 
9 to other people who do videos or content about going to January 6th? 
10 A No, I didn't really talk to --I don't really know anybody personally that 
11 creates content really like that. 
12 Q Did you get a sense from on line that this was a hot topic for content 
13 creators --or, sorry, a hot day for content creators? 
14 A No. I was kind of just basing it off of what I've seen in the past. Like 
15 whenever there's been kind of like a Trump rally or Trump supporters, sometimes you see 
16 like that counterprotest. And I was kind of just fascinated by like the whole dynamics of 
17 all of that. So I thought that would be kind of like my moment of the day to kind of 
18 catch a viral video if I was going to. 
19 
20 Q Understood. 
A And just like the amount of people that I heard were going to D.C., I thought 
21 that alone could be a cool thing to video because I never really heard of like that many 
22 people going to D.C. at once. 
23 So I thought that would be kind of --if there wasn't going to be any crazy 
24 counterprotesting that I can record, I thought it would be just, you know, the mass 
25 numbers of people that would at least be worth recording, which I did record throughout  19 
1 the day. 
2 Q Understood. Thank you. And I apologize again if you already answered 
3 that question, so thank you. 
4 A No worries. 
5 - Were there any particular counterprotesters or types of 
6 counterprotesters that you were interested in or did research on before you went to 
7 D.C.? 
8 Mr. Rahm. I mean, the only group I've ever really heard of was antifa. But I 
9 wasn't expecting them to show up necessarily. I just thought it could be any type of 
10 counterprotesters. 
11 - Okay. And then did you do any kind of research ahead of time or 
12 were there people or accounts that you followed through social media that were giving 
13 you information about what was going to happen on the 6th? 
14 Mr. Rahm. No, not really. I really knew --I honestly didn't even really 
15 understand fully like politically what that day was until, you know, days after. 
16 But, yeah, I didn't really know much except that there was a Trump rally and a 
17 crazy amount of people were showing up. That was, you know, as far as like leading up 
18 to those days, that was really all I knew. 
19 BY 
20 Q Did you have a sense of any --so you knew there would be a lot of people 
21 showing up. In terms of your thought that there might be counterprotesters, did you 
22 have any sense of who the Trump supporters would be or what they would look like 
23 when you're filming them? 
24 A Can you say that again? Did I have a sense of what Trump supporters 
25 would look like? Is that what you said?  20 
1 Q Yes. I'm trying to get a sense, you were interested in the Trump 
2 supporters, counterprotesters, and it seems like you have --you had some at least sense 
3 of like what antifa was. Did you have any thoughts of what the filming the Trump 
4 protesters would look like? 
5 A I mean, obviously some red hats and, you know, flags and whatnot. 
6 But from what I've seen, it looked like mainly just normal dressed people in the 
7 videos besides, you know, the red hats and whatnot in like previous videos that I've seen 
8 with these kind of clashes. And then you would see, you know, the counterprotesters 
9 would usually dress in like all black, so you could tell the difference between the two. 
10 So that was kind of, if I expected to see like a big clash, I expected to see, you 
11 know, normal dressed people with flags, you know, Trump hats here and there, and then, 
12 you know, whether it be all-black dressed individuals or not. That's kind of what I was 
13 expecting. 
14 Q Did you ever see in previous videos people dressed in military fatigues 
15 clashing with antifa? 
16 
17 
18 A 
Q 
A I want to say maybe, maybe I have, yeah. 
Camouflage or other sort of tactical gear? 
I can't say like for sure in my head what I've seen, but I feel like I may have 
19 seen something similar, nothing like full military gear, but maybe like some brief 
20 military-type equipment, like clothes and whatnot. But I can't put anything specific in 
21 my head. 
22 Q That's okay. And did you ever think before January 6th that if you saw a 
23 clash it would be between maybe the people dressed up in the military and antifa? Is 
24 that what you were expecting? 
25 A No, I never really would expect anybody in military, like a group of, if that's  1 what you're saying, a group of like military-type people. I would have never expected 
2 that, no. 
3 
4 
5 
6 Q Okay. Thank you. 
A Yes. 
BY 
Q I know you said that your dad was going alone and that you wanted to 
7 accompany him because you didn't feel comfortable with him doing that alone. 
8 
9 A Yeah. 
Q So did he ever talk about knowing of anybody else going or coordinating 
10 with or making plans with anybody else? 
11 A I think --he didn't have plans to go with anybody else or meet up with 
12 anybody, but he did know friends that were in D.C. that he --or that were going to D.C. 
13 And I don't know if he had any plans to meet up with them or not, but at one 
14 point in the day, which, you know, I'm sure we'll get to, we did separate, and he was 
15 going to go try to find anybody that he knew that was there. 
16 Q Okay. Do you know, were these just kind of individual friends or was it a 
17 group that he was part of? 
18 A I think just individual friends, like maybe a guy and his wife, I think it was. 
19 But I never met those friends of his, so I don't even know them by name. 
20 Q Once you decided to go to D.C. for the 6th, did you post anywhere about 
21 going? 21 
22 A No, I don't think so. I don't even think I told anyone. It was such like just 
23 a fast thing, like, "All right, I guess I'm going." 
24 
25 Q And then how did you guys end up traveling down to D.C.? 
A Just in my dad's pickup truck.  22 
1 Q Let's go through just some of the logistics of getting down there and when 
2 you arrived. Why don't you just start with, what day did you drive down? 
3 A On the 5th, the day before the rallies. 
Q Okay. And then when did you arrive on the 5th? 4 
5 A I'd say sometime like mid-afternoon. I honestly don't really remember, but 
6 I'd say sometime like mid-afternoon, early evening. 
7 Q Did you guys do anything on the 5th? There were also some, you know, 
8 political activities on the 5th. Did you participate in any of those? 
9 A We walked around D.C. a bit. We actually --we took the like rental 
10 scooters. We don't have those in Philadelphia, so I thought it would be a fun thing to 
11 do, and we kind of just rode those around. 
12 And we ended up --we did see some rallies and my dad wanted to stop for a bit. 
13 But we weren't there very long. 
14 
15 
16 
17 Q Where did you stay when you were in D.C.? 
A It was a hotel. I don't remember the name though, unfortunately. 
Q Was it in D.C. proper or were you in northern Virginia? 
A It was in D.C. proper, yeah. It took --it took --I would say, it was probably 
18 about a 10-minute drive. Like I said, we took the scooters and we did bicycles anytime 
19 we traveled into like the more metro areas. But it would probably be about a 
20 10-minute, 5-to 10-minute drive depending on traffic. 
21 
22 Q 
A How did you travel down to the Mall area on the 6th? 
I think it was by --I can't remember if it was scooter or bike, but I want to 
23 say it was the rental bikes. 
24 Q Okay. And then why don't you just start me with the --start with the 
25 morning of the 6th. What did you do and then how did you end up going to the rally?  23 
1 A I think just woke up and had breakfast. And then it was probably --we 
2 knew stuff was starting like early, like 8 or something, so we were up probably like 7. 
3 And our plan was to just go to all these scheduled rallies, and then by then we 
4 would already be checked out of our hotel, because it would be past the checkout time. 
5 So we were just going to get back to the truck that was at the parking garage and try to 
6 leave D.C. before, well before nightfall. That was like our original plan. 
7 So, yeah, it was probably about 8 by the time we got down there after taking the 
8 bikes. And we kind of just cruised around for about an hour and just, you know, seeing 
9 what we could see. 
10 And then I don't remember exactly at what point we ended up going towards like 
11 the big rally where Trump was speaking, but we did --that was our first like main 
12 destination, I guess you'd say. 
13 Q Okay. Let's stop there for one second. 
14 Leading into the 6th, either the morning of or the day before, did you expect there 
15 to be any violence or --on that day? 
16 A I thought there was a good possibility for it based off stuff I've seen from 
17 other past stuff on the internet, but I had no indication that there would be like definitely 
18 something happening. It was just like kind of more like a feeling, like, all right, like there 
19 are groups of people who don't like these groups of people that live in this area, so 
20 there's the potential for some clashes. 
21 Q Did you do anything to prepare for that possibility, like change maybe what 
22 you were wearing? Or did you bring any particular gear to prepare for that? 
23 A No. I really only had just like basic essentials, like I had like lunch and water 
24 and I think a few Band-Aids if I got blisters on my feet and whatnot. But other than that, 
25 just very basic, you know, ChapStick and those kind of things.  24 
1 Q And then I know you mentioned that you planned to go to the rally that 
2 Trump was speaking at, that was at the Ellipse. 
3 A Yes. 
4 Q And then you said, I think, that you also planned to go to some rallies after 
5 that one. Is that right? 
6 A The only other one we really knew about that we planned on was the rally 
7 that was scheduled at the Capitol. There was, I guess, one that was scheduled on, you 
8 know, the perimeter outside. And that the Capitol was on our way back to our hotel, so 
9 it was like the perfect plan for us. We'll leave here, stop at that rally on our way by, and 
10 then go home. 
11 Q Do you know which rally that was, or do you remember what group was 
12 putting on that rally? 
13 A I have no idea. We just --we --I think we were handed out like fliers or 
14 something and then ended up seeing it, like maybe a 1 o'clock rally or something, I think 
15 it was. But --and maybe my dad knew who they were, but I had no idea who it was. 
16 Q And then do you remember what time you ended up arriving at the Ellipse 
17 rally that President Trump was speaking at? 
18 A Sometime either late morning or early afternoon. It's really hard to 
19 remember. 
20 Q Okay. Why don't you --so let's --you just arrive at the Ellipse rally. Take 
21 me through your experience of that rally specifically, and then we'll stop before you start 
22 to head towards the Capitol. 
23 A Just massive amounts of people. So I was just recording and we were 
24 walking just, you know, getting the different angles and perspectives of the crowd that 
25 we could. We mainly stayed like in the back near the Washington Monument.  1 We did move up a little bit further into some deeper crowds, but there was just 
2 far too many people and just it wasn't worth it. So we just stuck towards the back. 
3 Q So you went into the area. Did you pass through metal detectors to get 
4 into that area? 
5 A No, no, no. We --no, no, no. So the big area where the Washington 
6 Monument is, the big patch of grass, and there's a street dividing where the metal 
7 detectors were. We only got up as far as the street and, you know, walked maybe 
8 50 feet down and it ended up being huge amounts of people. 
9 So we turned around. We had no plan of going into the actual like metal 
10 detector area. 
11 Q Okay. Do you remember any of the speeches in particular? Did you see 
12 anybody whose name you remember speaking? 
13 
14 
15 A 
Q 
A No. Only --the only person I remember was Trump. 
Okay. And were you there for --oh, sorry, go ahead. 
I was going to say, I really --I wasn't even paying attention much, honestly, 
16 so I couldn't even tell you what was said. 
Okay. 25 
17 
18 Q 
A I was more like just amazed by the amount of people that were --it was the 
19 most amount of people I'd ever seen in one place, and I go to music festivals and stuff. 
20 So it was kind of amazing just to see that many people. That was really what I was more 
21 interested in. 
22 Q What --how would you describe the mood at that point during the Ellipse 
23 rally speeches? 
24 A A lot of smiling faces, high, happy, happy energy, you know, some people 
25 with like --I remember seeing there was somebody that had like a boom box, and people  26 
1 were like dancing and stuff. 
2 And there was like a big --there was like a huge like poster on the ground that 
3 people were signing and, you know, little side stuff like that. 
4 But it was pretty --pretty good spirits honestly. There wasn't much negative 
5 energy in the air. 
6 Q I know you said you don't recall the specifics of the speeches. Is that also 
7 true for President Trump's speech? Do you remember anything specifically from his? 
8 A I can't. I mean, I've seen clips afterwards, you know, through different 
9 media, but even those clips I barely even remember. 
10 - Voucango,_ 
11 - Onesec. 
12 - I could ask a few questions while you sort out your technical issues. 
13 BY-
14 Q Do you recall the mood of the crowd changing at all during President 
15 Trump's speech? 
16 
17 
18 A 
Q 
A Not that I can recall, no. 
Do you recall him telling people to go march towards the Capitol? 
I believe I saw --that was one of the clips I've seen. But I don't remember 
19 him actually saying it in person. 
20 Q Okay. And then what led you all to leave that rally and then go towards the 
21 
22 Capitol? 
A I think it was just tired of standing. It was just time to just change 
23 locations. And, yeah, we just decided to get a move on. 
24 And we also wanted to --it was quite a walk. So we wanted to try to see if we 
25 could hop on one of those little scooters, the rental scooters. And we knew that we  27 
1 kind of had to get ahead of the crowd a little bit in order to do that. 
2 And at that point there was already massive amount of people flooding down that 
3 direction, like a really good amount of people that had already been heading that way for 
4 probably a good hour or so. 
5 
6 Q So when you left the rally had President Trump finished speaking? 
A I don't really remember, but I think he was still towards the end of his 
7 speech, if I can remember. 
8 
9 
10 Q Okay. 
- Still having technical issues? Okay. 
Okay. Then how about just take me through from your kind of journey from the 
11 Ellipse and then to the Capitol, and then we'll kind of stop when you get to the Capitol. 
12 A So we just got out of the big crowds, and we started to look for either the 
13 scooters or bikes that we could rent. We found two bikes. 
14 And we were kind of just cruising, you know, weaving in and out of the crowd, 
15 really just slowly riding and just getting through the crowd. 
16 I recorded it. I thought it would be a cool thing to record on my GoPro, like a 
17 moving shot through the crowd, so I recorded all that. 
18 And then, yeah, we just kept heading down --heading down that way. 
19 Q Did, as you were heading towards the Capitol, did you see any particular 
20 groups that were gathered that you could identify or notice anything about kind of how 
21 the crowd was organized? 
22 A The only like specific groups that I can remember besides like actual just 
23 plain clothes, regular clothes Trump supporters with maybe red hats and whatnot, the 
24 only other --the only group I like could pick out that was like distinguishable was --it was 
25 a group of Chinese people that, I guess, they were against like Communist China. That  28 
1 was kind of like what their signs were saying. But that was really the only like group that 
2 I remember seeing. 
3 Q And how about the mood of the crowd as they're marching towards, kind of 
4 the same, everybody excited and happy or --
5 A Yeah, very similar and just, you know, high spirits, everybody just kind of 
6 moseying along. 
7 Q Okay. And then where, when you get closer to the Capitol, what area did 
8 you arrive in or where did you kind of first get to Capitol Grounds? 
9 A When I first stopped I was near just like a bunch of food trucks. And at that 
10 point I had been texting with a friend who --he lives in Virginia and works in D.C. So he 
11 was already in D.C. and with a couple other, his cousin and the cousin's girlfriend, I 
12 believe it was. I don't really know who she was. 
13 But they had already been in D.C. that day kind of just checking out the spectacle 
14 of everything because they live there. And he's my friend from home, so I planned on, 
15 you know, at least saying hello to him, because we had been on --in the same like general 
16 area of D.C. 
17 So at that point, I told my dad like, "Hey, like, I'm going to go meet up with one of 
18 my friends. We'll meet up in, you know, 30 minutes or so." 
19 At this point, we had no idea what was happening at the Capitol. We just 
20 thought it was rallies. 
21 Would you like me to continue with meeting my friend? 
22 Q Let's stop there. 
23 When you said 30 minutes or we'll meet up in 30 minutes, did you mean you were 
24 going to leave your dad and then come back and meet him in 30 minutes or --
25 A Yeah, like, you know, like, "I'll see if I can find my friend; if not, I'll probably  29 
1 see you in 30 minutes." Because at that point there were so many people, I wasn't even 
2 sure if I was going to be able to find my friend. 
3 Q Okay. And then as you're marching to the Capitol and kind of getting closer 
4 to the Capitol Grounds, were you --I know you were recording. Were you like actively 
5 engaged in any social media? Were you posting at all? Snapping? 
6 A I posted some Snapchats throughout the day, but that was about it, just, you 
7 know, of where I was, not really me saying anything, just kind of my surroundings. 
8 Q Okay. And were you following anybody that was like maybe livestreaming 
9 or posting about what was happening kind of on a, you know, moment-by-moment basis? 
10 A No, besides just a couple of the quick videos I took, I barely had my phone 
11 out that day. 
12 
13 
14 - Okay. -BY-
15 Q Sorry for the technical problems. I have no idea what's happening. And 
16 apologies again if-already asked you this. 
17 But I was interested, back at the rally, you mentioned people seemed happy. Did 
18 you overhear anybody or get a sense of why they were happy? 
19 A Not really. I mean, I didn't really stop to look at people or to talk to people 
20 and, you know, get their perspective. It was just --it was, you know, just kind of like a 
21 party atmosphere at times, like people were just happy. It was a really, you know, 
22 sunny day, and it was just --I don't know. 
23 I don't really know how to explain it. It was just there was no negativity. And it 
24 wasn't like overly joyful people, you know, but there wasn't much, you know, negative 
25 energy, I guess you could say.  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 Q Okay. And- might have asked this. 
When you were walking towards the Capitol, was that happiness still present? 
A Yeah, it was a very similar vibe as far as I could tell. 
Q When did that --did you ever notice that vibe changing? 
A Yes. And that was when I got up to the actual like grounds. 
Q I'll turn it back over to- Thank you and sorry again. 
A No worries. 
BY 
Q Well, why don't you just take us through. 
So you arrive at the Capitol Grounds and you start to --or you leave your dad at 
11 that point. Is that right? 
12 A Yeah. Yes. 
13 Q Okay. Just take us through that. 
14 A So I leave my dad. He says, "All right, I'll go see if I can find anybody that I 
15 know here." So he heads off. And --
16 Q Do you remember --sorry --do you remember where you were when you 
17 guys split up? Like can you describe your surroundings? 
18 A Definitely like approaching the like perimeter of like the initial Capitol 
19 Grounds, like the last --is it Pennsylvania Ave that leads to --well, let's just call it the 
20 avenue that I was on. 
21 
22 Q There's Constitution and then there's also Pennsylvania, yeah. 
A Okay. So I think it was Pennsylvania Ave. But where the actual like 30 
23 buildings end and it starts to be just like big, open area, I was kind of like right around that 
24 area. And there was like a bunch of food trucks like off to like one of the buildings that 
25 were on the like side perimeter, and that's kind of where I held up for a second and  31 
1 figured out where my friend actually was. 
2 And I realized he was coming the same direction that I was going just on the next 
3 street over. So I proceeded to kind of intercept him where I thought he would be 
4 coming out of that avenue. And we ended up --I think we ended up just like finding a 
5 landmark and meeting there. 
6 
7 Q 
A Okay. Do you recall what that landmark was? 
I think it was just --I don't remember. I think maybe a statue or something. 
8 I don't really remember. I just remember meeting somewhere. 
9 
10 
11 Q 
A 
Q One of many statues around there? 
Yeah. 
Do you remember --so as you're walking towards the Capitol, in front of the 
12 Capitol, if the Washington Monument is behind you, there's like a large empty pool area 
13 with some statues at the top of it near to the Capitol. Do you know what area I'm 
14 talking about? 
15 A Maybe. I could be mistaken, but I think I know. 
16 Q And so if you're looking --well, let me just ask this question. If you're 
17 looking at the Capitol coming from the Washington Monument, were you to the left side 
18 of the Capitol, to the right side, or right in front of the Capitol? 
19 A I was more to the left, and then moved a little bit to the middle to find my 
20 friend, and then we proceeded to stay towards the left. 
21 Q Okay. So then you eventually find your friends, and then what happens 
22 from there? 
23 A And then we just all --you know, most of the crowds and stuff, you know, 
24 were heading towards the Capitol, so we just continued to follow the crowds. 
25 And at this point, we were still expecting that we were just going to be walking up  32 
1 on a rally. At this point, we had no idea what was happening, and I'm pretty sure it was 
2 already --things were already happening as far as the crowds moving past where they 
3 were supposed to be. 
4 And at that point, when we had actually moved into that, I guess, like more 
5 restricted area on the outskirts of the Capitol, we still had no idea that, you know, people 
6 had pushed through that area. It was only until the days after that I realized, wow, like 
7 the whole crowds were supposed to be like pretty far back. 
8 And, yeah, we just kept pushing our way through, not even pushing because it 
9 wasn't even like we had to like go through really tight crowds. It was very easy to walk 
10 through. And, yeah, we just walked --we walked all the way up. 
11 
12 
13 
14 Should I stop, or do you want me to continue? 
Q Let's --I'll ask you a couple questions first before we get into the building. 
What do you recall about what time this was that you met up with your friends? 
A It was early in the afternoon, I want to say like sometime after 1 o'clock, but 
15 it's really hard to remember the exact time. 
16 Q Right. Okay. 
17 And then how about from the time that you met your friends to, let's say, just 
18 before you enter the Capitol Building, about how long did it take for you to walk from the 
19 meeting point with your friends to entering the building? 
20 A Well, to get to the actual like steps where the front of the crowds were, it 
21 took about 10 minutes from the time that I like first saw my friend. You know, we 
22 talked for a couple minutes, and then we just said, "Hey, let's keep walking." Probably 
23 about 10 minutes to that point. 
24 
25 Q Okay. 
A And then I can kind of go through the some of the things like out to that  33 
1 point. 
Q Yeah, let's do that. 
So you've gotten to the steps now --
Yeah. 
--in front of the Capitol. What happens there, after that? 2 
3 
4 
5 
6 A 
Q 
A Then, as soon as we start to approach that front area of the crowd, then we 
7 start to realize, okay, something isn't right here, because we started to hear a couple loud 
8 bangs. And we were super confused what the bangs could be at first. And then I guess 
9 it was some type of crowd control device. 
10 And, you know, we heard the bangs and we just kept walking. We didn't --we 
11 still really didn't think much of it. It wasn't until we could get a clear view of like the 
12 front that we realized, okay, like there's something off here, like something's going on. 
13 Q And what were the things that kind of alerted you to the fact that something 
14 was off or something was going wrong? 
15 A I mean, people were trying to go up the Capitol steps, for one. I didn't see 
16 many --like much like direct resistance between police at first. 
17 Eventually I did see, you know, some instances, more off to the middle part of 
18 where the crowds were, because I was off to the left, you know, saw more resistance 
19 with police over there. 
20 And then there was some like crowd riot control police officers that came in from 
21 a separate angle, and they kind of just stood in the middle of the crowd for a while and 
22 then continued on. 
23 And at a certain point people just started flooding up, and they just --you know, 
24 right up the stairs. Yeah.  34 
1 
2 [11:00 a.m.] 
3 BY-
4 Q You mentioned that more towards the middle of the building you saw more 
5 clashes with the police. What did you --what do you recall observing of those people? 
6 What did they look like? Were they saying anything that you can remember? Just tell 
7 me any details you can remember about the people that were clashing with the police. 
8 A Okay. So it seemed the majority of the people were just plain clothes 
9 dressed people, you know, some Trump hats here and there as far as like the people that 
10 I saw, like, directly in the front. There were very strange groups of people that had 
11 more like militaryish gear, and helmets, and like goggles and stuff. 
12 And somebody told me that --I don't know, there was like a group of people and 
13 they all had like a certain color, like, arm band or like color on their --and somebody told 
14 me that they were, like, a group of, like, lawyers or something that go to, like, political 
15 protests and stuff. And I don't know, something. So that was, like, one group that I 
16 saw. And --
17 Q Were the people in the arm bands --sorry, to interrupt you --were the 
18 people in the arm bands also in the kind of military gear or this is a different group? 
19 
20 
21 A Yeah, yeah. The same people --
Q Okay. 
A --that were in the military gear had the arm bands I guess so they could kind 
22 of recognize each other. And they were, like, they weren't actively doing anything 
23 besides just like huddling up in a group and, like, whispering to each other and stuff, 
24 which I thought was a little strange. But I didn't see them do anything crazy at that 
25 point.  35 
1 Then there were just the random people dressed in non, you know, traditional 
2 civilian clothes, helmets and stuff that you'd see here and there. But as far as, like, the 
3 people that I saw, like, in the front front, it was a mixture of regular people and then a 
4 couple, like, weirdly dressed militaryish clothes. 
5 Q Do you remember what color the band was, the arm band that people were 
6 wearing? 
7 A You know, in my GoPro footage I am sure that can be easily detectable. 
8 want to say maybe green, but I am not 100 percent sure off memory. 
9 Q And then I take it at this point, as you are observing that, the mood had 
10 changed. Is that right? 
11 A Yeah. It was definitely a little bit more of a negative energy in the air --a 
12 way a way different feel than the rest of the day. 
13 Q Okay. Okay. So then you are observing these folks clashing kind of 
14 towards the middle of the building, but you still continue up towards the Capitol 
15 entrance. Tell me about that. 
16 A Well, I --at some point --sorry to talk over you. But at some point, the 
17 clashes kind of stopped, like, the police just backed off. And they kind of just let 
18 everybody flood up the stairs. And I didn't go up immediately. I wasn't planning on 
19 going up at all. But I do tend to just kind of like jump into action sometimes. Like if 
20 there's a fight, I will jump in to try break it up. 
21 One time I was standing outside of an establishment a few months ago and there 
22 was a fire in a house, like, a block over. And me and my friend ran and we kicked down 
23 the door, and ran in, and made sure somebody was in there. So I do tend to, like, jump 
24 into action sometimes, usually for good. 
25 So that, you know, was some of my thought process. But the majority of it was,  36 
1 okay, I can get some really cool videos right now. So I planned, all right let me go up the 
2 stairs and just film what I could film people flooding up the stairs. Film the whole vast 
3 amount of crowds that were, you know, on the Capitol Grounds outside. So my drive to 
4 want to capture something viral kind of led me up the stairs. 
5 Q Okay. So the police seemed to back off a little bit and the crowds kind of 
6 surge up the stairs. 
7 
8 
9 A 
Q 
A Yeah. 
And then what happens next? 
So I got up the stairs, you hear people screaming, we stormed the Capitol, 
10 we did it, we stormed the Capitol, whatever. And there was --at that point it was just 
11 like a lot of excitement, less hostility. Just people kind of, like, amazed like how are we 
12 walking up these stairs right now. But because the vast majority of the people that 
13 went up were not people that were, like, it seemed like at least it wasn't people that were 
14 actually clashing with police. It was just people that were kind of just standing around 
15 and were like, oh, cool, lets go up the stairs. You know? 
16 So I went up the stairs. I filmed the whole thing. At the top of the stairs --and 
17 is where something in my mind, something crucial happened for my thought process of 
18 actually going into the Capitol, and that was --we were almost in a way, like, greeted by 
19 police officers at the top. There was a police officer with a case of water. And he was 
20 just handing out waters to people. And it was, like, a very like welcoming attitude. 
21 You know, like, he was, like, answering questions and talking to people. And it was just, 
22 like, okay, I guess they, like --I guess they want us to do this. I guess this is all right. 
23 And there was other cops just kind of standing around just observing. So there 
24 wasn't any, like, hostility as soon as I got up the stairs. It felt, like I said, almost 
25 welcoming in a sense.  37 
1 And then I proceeded to follow the rest of the crowds towards I guess it was the 
2 main entrance --not the main entrance of the Capitol, but I guess like, the main entrance 
3 that the majority of the people were flooding into. 
4 Should I stop there or do you want me to continue? 
5 Q Just a couple of questions. 
6 As you are heading towards that entrance, was there anybody directing you in 
7 that direction or anybody kind of helping the crowd decide where to go? 
8 A I mean, I may have seen a couple of people waving people up. But there 
9 was nobody, like, screaming like we have to go this way, this way, this way. It was kind 
10 of like a little bit of just confusion and people were just going, you know, with the 
11 direction of everybody else. 
12 
13 Q 
A Okay. And were you still with all of your friends at this point? 
No. So --yeah, I forgot to get to that part. So as soon as we got towards 
14 the front of the crowds, as soon as we saw there was any type of, like, we smelled like 
15 some tear gas I guess in the air and that immediately upset the female that was with us. 
16 So they kind of just took off. I didn't even get a chance to say good-bye to them because 
17 there was, like, so many people around us towards the front at that point. And I guess 
18 she was like so freaked out by all, like, the people and everything that they just kind of 
19 just left. And at that point I was just on my own. I was, like, all right, I guess I am going 
20 to keep filming. 
21 Q Maybe I lost count of how many people you were with. Was it a friend, 
22 their cousin, and a girlfriend? 
23 
24 
25 A 
Q 
A And a girl. Yes. 
Okay. And so --
1 don't remember if the girl was a girlfriend, but it was a girl that was with  38 
1 them. 
2 Q Okay. So the cousin and the girl left. Did you friend also leave? 
3 A All three of them left, like, he was kind of, like, taking responsibility for her. 
4 They both were, both of the guys. They kind of just were, like, all right, we need to --I 
5 think they just made the split decision, like, all right, we to get her out of here because 
6 she's not very comfortable here. 
7 Q Okay. So you described some of the groups that were --that you saw 
8 before you entered the building. How about around this time that you are entering the 
9 building, did you notice any particular groups of people that you remember? 
10 A Any of the people that were in, like, gear I did not see at this point. There 
11 was one guy who was really sketchy looking who had --at the very bottom of the stairs, 
12 who had some type of military gear on. And he was trying really hard to hide his face. 
13 He had like this visor that came down on his helmet that he put down. And he was just 
14 like, keep moving people, keep moving, keep them moving. And it didn't even look like 
15 he was going himself. He was just kind of, like, telling everybody to go up and it didn't 
16 look like he was going to actually do it himself. 
17 That was the only --that was last of anybody, in like, last gear that I saw until 
18 maybe we were like actually in there in there. And even then, I am not really even kind 
19 of pinpointing in my mind those people. 
20 Q Why? This guy was sketchy because you thought he was concealing his 
21 identity or what made you think he was sketchy? 
22 A It was just his demeanor. And just, like, his, like, calmness of, like, this is 
23 normal, everybody up the stairs, go ahead, go ahead. And it just seemed like he was 
24 almost trying to, like, convince people to go up. In my mind, it felt like he was going to 
25 go himself, he was more convincing people to go and, like, just trying to make some  39 
1 direction. 
2 Q And then what was your attitude at this point or your mood as you are 
3 entering the building? 
4 A Well, first off I --before I entered, I saw a VouTuber that I've seen before. 
5 don't remember his name, but I know he's, like, kind of a political VouTuber. And he 
6 was with his camera as well, just by himself with his camera. And I saw him go in. And 
7 in my mind I am, like, all right. Well, he knows what he's doing. Like, I am pretty much 
8 doing the same thing as him. Like, I am not reporting on it, but I felt like at that point, 
9 like, all right, I am doing what he's doing, I am just recording everything. 
10 And yeah, I did have a sense of, like, maybe I shouldn't do this, like --but at that 
11 point, I didn't realize, like, how crazy of a thing it was to actually, like, to take the steps in 
12 there. It was just kind of like, all right, I will just go, like, record and see what is going 
13 on. I just felt, like, really --like, I was like, this is a historic day. So I was, like, all right, 
14 let me just try to record as much as I can from this day. 
15 Q A couple questions. One, would you recognize the name of the VouTuber if 
16 I tried to give it to you, do you think? 
17 A I think I just remember seeing him by face. I don't re --like, it's not 
18 somebody I would, like, watch videos of. 
19 
20 
21 Q 
A Does the name Nick Fuentes ring a bell? 
I have never heard that name before. No. 
Q Okay. And then I think at this time were you still posting on Snapchat as 
22 you are entering the building? 
23 
24 
25 A Yeah. I posted a couple, like, right at the entrance. 
Q Okay. 
A I don't remember what else I posted. But I do remember specifically, like,  40 
1 posting one like right after I walked in. 
2 Q Okay. Is that the --I will just for the record I have seen transcripts of some 
3 of those posts. There's one where it is a Snapchat post, I think it is right before you 
4 entered the building. You say, holy shit, holy shit, oh my fucking God, we just stormed 
5 the Capitol. Holy fuck. 
6 
7 
8 A 
Q 
A Yeah. 
Is that one you remember posting? 
Yeah. I remember seeing that, afterwards, yeah. And that was just, like, 
9 all, like, excitement. And there were so many people saying, like, we are storming the 
10 Capitol, we are storming the Capitol. That just like just spewed out of my mouth, you 
11 know. I was just like caught up in all the excitement of it. 
12 Q I am just going to ask, where did you get that language using the words 
13 storming the Capitol? 
14 A I probably heard that a hundred times before I actually said it. It was kind 
15 of just like had been beaming in and out of my ear ever since I first walked up to the 
16 Capitol. So, yeah. It was just kind of, like, just spewed out. 
17 Q Okay. Did --I know you have described kind of your purpose of entering 
18 the Capitol is that you wanted to capture that on video and see what everybody was 
19 doing. Any other motivations behind entering the building? Were you trying to make 
20 a statement? Did you have an idea of wanting to achieve something by wanting to 
21 enter the Capitol? 
22 A No. I was not driven besides anything just wanting to film and then just, 
23 like, my excitement of, like, always just jumping to action and just, like, jumping in those 
24 situations. 
25 Q Okay. It sounds like maybe not the best context for an extended  41 
1 conversation, but did you talk to anybody else about why they were entering the Capitol? 
2 A I never talked to anybody, like, directly and ask them. No. I mean, I 
3 remember hearing some things, but even then, I don't really exactly, like, remember the 
4 details of those comments. 
5 Q Okay. I know you said that it wasn't until later that you understood what 
6 the significance of the day January 6th was. 
7 
8 A Yeah. 
Q By the time you are entering the Capitol, did you understand what was going 
9 on on that day and what was happening in Congress? 
10 A I understood there was some type of --I don't even know what to call it, but 
11 I do know, like, Mike Pence was deciding something. 
12 
13 Q Okay. And how did you figure that out? 
A I think I just overheard people talking about Pence and, like, you know, his 
14 decision or something. I don't know, something like that. 
15 
16 Q Okay. And do you remember what they were saying about Pence? 
A I can't specifically pinpoint in my mind what they were saying. I just 
17 remember hearing his name. 
18 Q Okay. How --well, let's just talk about, so now you have kind of gone 
19 through those doors and you've entered the Capitol. What happened after that? 
20 A Then I kind of just stood at the entryway filming people walking in. And 
21 then I didn't know at that point if I was going to continue on. I thought it would just be 
22 a good angle to have people coming in and then I thought maybe I would just go out from 
23 there. But just my curiosity kept me in there, kept me following the crowds. And 
24 again, my pursuit to try to film some stuff. And I did film everything thought that day. 
25 So, I mean, I got what I wanted, but at what cost obviously.  42 
1 Q Yeah, understood. 
2 Can you tell me to the extent you can describe it or that you remember it the 
3 route you took once you entered? 
4 A So we went in and then made a right turn. And then we eventually got to 
5 an area with a few officers standing there like kind of I guess forming some type of wall. 
6 There wasn't really enough officers to form, like, side-by-side kind of wall. But they 
7 were standing there. And then there were so many people flooding in there, that it was 
8 pretty impossible for, you know, only a few officers to direct the crowd to not move any 
9 further. And people just kept flooding more and more. 
10 Q Okay. At some point, I understand you are inside the building and there's 
11 another door that's shut, that's --you are on the interior, there is a door that's shut, and 
12 then there's also protesters outside of the door. Do you know what I am talking about? 
13 There is a moment where a door opens up and you are near that door area? 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A Are you speaking of exterior door? 
Yes. So it is an exterior door and then rioters come in that door as well. 
Yes. Yes. 
Do you recall this door opening up? 
Yeah. Yeah. At that point, I thought that was, like, a pivotal moment to 
19 record. So I kind of just got in there and tried to film the best angle that I could. I see 
20 now that I probably shouldn't have been around those people, based off, you know, what 
21 the DOJ was kind of insinuating me being around them. I guess I kind of look like I may 
22 have been, like, actively with that group. But my only motivation for being in there, 
23 around them was just to get the best shot with my GoPro, which I had recording. 
24 Q Okay. Okay. Can you tell me how you got to that group and then kind of 
25 what you saw as you got near the door?  43 
1 A So we ended up in the rotunda area and then eventually we were kind of 
2 sectioned off in that area of the rotunda and then that next lobby area where that entry 
3 door is. 
4 So I end up in that area because that was just kind of where the crowd funneled 
5 through and ended up at. And then that was kind of where we were contained. 
6 
7 Q 
A Okay. So then what started happening in what is there in that area? 
Just a lot of just confusion and chaos. I was --I hit a point where I was just 
8 stuck in the middle of the crowd with nowhere to go. And this was when I was like kind 
9 of at the entry door to the rotunda, in between the lobby and the rotunda. And then 
10 the police started to use, like, extreme, you know, force to try to push us even further. 
11 But the people who were in front of me, like, didn't want to move. And then I 
12 had the police coming from this way pushing. So then at one point I was, like, really 
13 stuck in the middle of the crowd. At that point I really just wanted --I was like, all right, 
14 I should just leave here, this isn't worth the video. Yeah --
15 Q Just so that I understand, which direction were the police trying to push you 
16 in? 
17 A They were pushing us towards that lobby area where the entry door is. 
18 And that side of the Capitol is the complete opposite side from when we first entered. 
19 Q And then just describe to me how --what you observed as this group starts 
20 to try to open that exterior door? 
21 A Well, there was people on the outside pushing on the door and whatnot or 
22 pulling. I don't really remember if it was pushing or pulling. And then I guess a few 
23 people on the inside decided to try to help that effort. And that's when I saw one of the 
24 doors start to, you know, creep open, I guess. And I got in there to get, you know, the 
25 best angle, because I saw a vast amount of people on the outside.  1 So it was, like, a really, like, interesting view from where I was, you know, the 
2 doorway with just a bunch of people on the outside trying to get in. 
3 Q Okay. And so, you understood that the people were trying to open that 
4 door, but you said you weren't there to try to open the door, you were just trying to cut 
5 through the --
6 
7 A I yeah, I was trying to get myself in the best position to film the best angle. 
Q Okay. And then at this point are you still kind of solo going through the 
8 Capitol, or had you met anybody, or paired up with anybody? 
9 A No. No. I was still solo. I barely talked to anybody. There was a few 
10 people I talked to when I was --just like brief conversations when everybody --when it 
11 was, like, calm and everybody was just standing in the rotunda before, like, the police 44 
12 were forcing everybody out of that area. You know, a couple of conversations like that I 
13 overheard and maybe, you know, I said something, but I never had really any concrete 
14 conversations with anybody. 
15 Q Were you there when the doors fully opened up, those exterior doors that 
16 we talked about? 
17 A I believe so, yeah. I mean, we were kind of --there was nowhere else to go 
18 besides right there. 
19 Q Okay. All right, then take me through kind of next steps. After you are in 
20 that area filming this conflict at the door, what happens after that? 
21 A I kind of realized, like, okay, like, people might start flooding in here if they 
22 get the doors all the way open. So I kind of took a step back and just kind of observed 
23 from the side, even though it wasn't a good angle for recording. I just decided, all right, 
24 let me just get out of the way here and wait for my turn to leave. 
25 Q Okay. And then you can continue. What happened after that?  45 
1 A Just, you know, some people started to come in that door. I --the only, 
2 like, specific thing I remember is an older gentleman, like, got like pepper sprayed, I 
3 guess, and he was just kind of sitting there on a bench. He seemed like he was one of 
4 the people who came in through that one door. 
5 And then I kind of just waited for things to calm down as far as, like, people 
6 coming in that door. And I just decided to get out as soon as I could. 
About how long do you think you were inside the building? 7 
8 Q 
A I would say --it's really hard to like gauge the time, because there was like so 
9 much going on, but I want to say like 30 minutes maybe. 
10 Q Okay. So after you kind of wait in that lobby area near the external door 
11 and wait for things to calm down, at some point you decide to leave. What prompted 
12 you to leave? 
13 
14 A 
Q The police officers that were telling us to leave. 
Okay. Did --so I know you described when you first entered the Capitol 
15 you mentioned there was a police officer there who was handing out water and it felt sort 
16 of like a welcoming atmosphere --
17 
18 A 
Q Yeah. 
--or he wasn't telling you to leave. At what point when you were inside did 
19 you come to understand that the police actually wanted you to leave the building? 
20 A Well, definitely by the time that they were all, like, pushing us in the rotunda 
21 to be, like, contained towards the lobby. As soon as I --you know, obviously I knew. 
22 Like. This is probably something that people aren't going to like, like law enforcement. 
23 But up until that point it kind of seemed like maybe this is just, you know, a peaceful, like, 
24 protest where people are just going to sit in and, you know, peacefully protest inside. 
25 Yeah.  46 
1 It wasn't until I realized, like, there was, you know, extreme force with riot police 
2 and stuff in the rotunda. Because up until that point, it was still like people were in high 
3 spirits, a like really like kind of happy atmosphere again as soon as possible people were 
4 inside. And then like I said, as soon as those riot police started moving through, that 
5 was in my mind like, all right, I should get out of here. Like they really want us to get out 
6 of here. 
7 Q Okay. So at that point you leave through that door that's opened up. 
8 What happens after that? 
9 A I just got out of the crowd just as soon as I could, and got down the steps, 
10 and just kind of observed from the bottom for a couple of minutes. And then I was, like, 
11 all right, let me try to find my dad. And I gave him a call to see where he was. 
12 Q Okay. And then --am I right, I think I have seen in some of the other 
13 pictures or videos, did your dad come in that door near where you were when it had 
14 opened up? 
15 
16 
17 A Yeah. So I had no idea he was in there. 
Q Okay. 
A Like, apparently, he was --like, with my FBI interview, DOJ interview, 
18 whatever it was, they showed me how he, like, came through the door. And I was like, 
19 wow, I was standing very close to that. But there were so many people it's impossible 
20 to, like, look at everybody. 
21 So it wasn't until --you know, I talked to him after and he said that he walked in 
22 briefly --but it wasn't until that interview that I realized how close he was actually to me. 
23 Q Okay. So you leave, you call your dad. Did he pick up? Or how did you 
24 end up getting back in contact with him? 
25 A Yeah. He picked up the phone and he at that point was down the steps  47 
1 somewhere waiting for me as well. 
Q Okay. And now this is on the other side of the building --
A Yes. 
Q --from where you entered? 
A The complete opposite side, yep. 
Q Okay. Great. 2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 So we have been going for almost an hour and a half now. Do you need to take a 
8 break or anything? 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 record. A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q Yeah. I would like to use the bathroom really quick. 
Okay. Let's do that. It's 11:28, why don't we come back at 11:35. 
Okay. 
So feel to turn off your camera, and mute your mike, and we will go off the 
Okay. 11:35 you said? 
Yes, 11:35. 
Okay. Thank you. 
Yep. 
[Recess.] 
B~ 
Q Let us go back on the record. 
Okay. So James, we had or J.D., sorry. We had kind of left off where you leave 
22 the Capitol Grounds and you've met back up with your father after calling him. I did 
23 have some questions about some communications that your father sent while he was 
24 either on the Grounds or afterwards that evening and some representations he made in 
25 those texts?  48 
A Yes. 1 
2 Q So one of the things --and you have probably seen these, but one of things 
3 that he said was that he was in Speaker Pelosi's office and that he urinated in the office 
4 and that you had videos of that. Are you familiar with that text? 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 friends. A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q Yeah. 
Okay. And I take it from your account that that's not true? 
Absolutely not. Yeah, he kind of just said that, I guess to seem cool to his 
Okay. 
He tends to do that sometimes, he kind of exaggerates. 
Can you just elaborate on that a little bit. Do you know did he actually go 
12 into the Speaker's Office? Did he urinate at all? Obviously you don't have videos of 
13 that? 
14 A He didn't either. I believe he was in the Capitol for a few minutes and then 
15 he left. And he barely even went in besides the, like little lobby area. 
16 Q And do you know who the individual is that he was sending these messages? 
A I don't think I ever met that person. I have no idea really who they are. 17 
18 Q Okay. Let's just go through --so you are on the other side of Capitol 
19 Building now and you've met up with your dad. What happens then? Let's first start 
20 when you guys first meet, what do you talk about? What is his impression of what just 
21 happened? 
22 A Well, he may have known that I was already in there, because while he was 
23 in there he did call me to see where I was and I couldn't hear him. So I kind of just said, 
24 like, I am inside, I don't know if you can hear me or not and then I hung up. So at that 
25 point he was like, you are inside. And then I said --I said I honestly forget the exact  49 
1 conversation we had, but it was something along the lines of, like, I went in, yeah. Oh 
2 you went in. I went in for a second, yeah. And it was kind of just like, all right, let's just 
3 leave here. This is enough chaos for one day. 
4 Q And then so what did you guys end up doing after that? How did you 
5 leave? 
6 A We --I believe we found some more bikes and just headed right back to the 
7 parking garage. Because at that point we were already checked out of the room, but 
8 the car was still in the hotel parking garage. So we just road right back to the truck and 
9 headed back north. 
10 Q Any other recollections about kind of things that you and your dad talked 
11 about on the way back? Were you following any news sources and watching coverage 
12 of what had happened? 
13 A I don't really remember what we talked about. I am sure I was, you know, 
14 interested in some of the news coverage and whatnot. But I believe that most of that 
15 ride home I just took a nap because we were up pretty early and whatnot. It was a long 
16 day. 
17 Q Do you remember in the period of time that you were in the Capitol or 
18 immediately after --do you remember seeing or hearing about any of the messages from 
19 President Trump that he was sending to people at the Capitol? 
20 
21 A 
Q No. I didn't even know that was a thing. 
Sorry. I should be more clear, it wasn't. He released a statement, a video 
22 statement, speaking to the people at the Capitol and then asking at one point for them to 
23 leave and go home peacefully. Do you recall hearing about that? 
24 A I do not. I remember hearing about it after the fact. But while I was 
25 actually in the Capitol, I don't remember that. No.  50 
1 Q Okay. After you left the building and on your way back home, did you call 
2 your mom at any point or update her on what had happened? 
3 
4 A I honestly don't remember, but I am sure I did. Yeah. 
Q Okay. Do you remember either that day or afterwards conversations with 
5 her and what her reaction was to what had happened? 
6 A I mean, she wasn't happy, you know, that I put myself in that situation. As 
7 far as besides that, I can't really remember what was said. But she definitely, you 
8 know --she was just like, you know, I am glad you are all right type of thing. 
9 Q And then how about your dad's attitude as you are heading back? What 
10 was his kind of take on the whole day? 
11 A I mean, he didn't have any really, like, strong emotions or anything. Yeah, I 
12 mean, honestly, we didn't talk about it much. It was just kind of like something that 
13 happened, and had some brief conversations about it, and that was it. 
14 Q Why don't you --you have gotten back home, why don't you tell me kind of 
15 what happened with you and your dad as far as interaction with the FBI or DOJ about 
16 your involvement on the 6th? 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 A I am sorry. I am just confused what you are asking. 
Q When did you first hear from the FBI after the 6th? 
A When they raided my house. 
Q Okay. And when was that? 
A It was either late February or early March, I would say. I can't exactly 
22 remember. I was actually not even home, I was on a snowboarding trip. 
23 Q Right, okay. And then it can be pretty high level, but just tell me after that 
24 how many times did you meet with FBI? I know you interviewed with them. Just give 
25 me kind of the run through of that interaction.  51 
1 A I believe it was like two major interviews that I did. It's kind of hard to 
2 remember, but I was on a separate ski trip, that had already been planned and whatnot, 
3 when I did the initial interview I believe. 
4 I am having a hard time remembering if there was an actual second interview that 
5 I did on Zoom. But I know the next interactions were just, you know, giving them my 
6 GoPro material and my phone for, you know, the data dump and whatnot. 
7 They already had my computer so I had to give them the password for that. And 
8 then the only thing after that where I had actual contact with them was when I had to go, 
9 like, turn myself in and do the whole processing stuff. 
10 Q Okay. I want to talk about just sort of looking back on January 6th and kind 
11 of your current feelings about that day. What --well, I guess just looking back on that 
12 day if you kind of want to just give me your general thoughts or how you feel about what 
13 happened? 
14 A I mean, at the end of the day I think it was not the best day for our Nation's 
15 history. I had no idea the extent that this would be going as it was unfolding. But I can 
16 definitely see, you know, how big of a thing it is now. 
17 I am definitely regretful for going in there. I mean, I got some good video, but it 
18 was not worth it at all looking back. And if I, you know, could make that decision again, I 
19 may have went up to the bottom steps, but I never would have went up those steps. 
20 Q Has that experience, the 6th and then afterwards, kind of changed your 
21 views on politics or your engagement with politics? I know you said before you weren't 
22 very engaged? 
23 A It's not something that I guess you'd say, like, triggered me to be like more 
24 political or anything. No, I can't say that made me, like, you know, pushed me into 
25 politics more or anything.  52 
1 Q Okay. And then how about your views on President Trump? So I know 
2 you said that you voted for him in the general election and were generally a supporter. 
3 What are your feelings about President Trump now? 
4 A I mean, at first I just took what my parents would tell me and a little bit of 
5 things and, you know, things that other people would tell me that were supporters of his. 
6 Now looking back, like, there's a lot of things like I don't necessarily like about him when I 
7 actually, like, dive deeper into --besides the obvious things like the Twitter stuff, like, kind 
8 of childish things like that. 
9 Yeah, I don't have many strong views like --it's not like I really like --like I said, I 
10 am not a Trump supporter. Like I did vote for him, but I don't consider myself currently 
11 a Trump supporter or even when I did go into the Capitol, I wouldn't consider myself a 
12 Trump supporter, even though I did vote for him because I was not, you know --I didn't 
13 know enough I would say. 
14 Q Okay understood. And then I know you also mentioned that on the 6th or 
15 shortly after that you came to somewhat understand Vice President Pence's role on that 
16 day? 
17 
18 
19 A Yeah. 
Q Do you have any thoughts about Vice President Pence after the 6th? 
A I mean, as far as I can tell, he did exactly what he was supposed to do. And 
20 I don't think he had any kind of power that people think he did to do what they were 
21 expecting him to do. That's kind of my feelings on it. 
22 Q Okay. Then I am pretty much done with my questions. I just kind of 
23 wanted to give you an opportunity, if there's anything you wanted to say or any other 
24 thoughts you had about the events of 6th that we haven't already covered, feel free to let 
25 me know.  53 
1 A I mean, all is I can say is like I said, I deeply regret going in. You know, not 
2 to justify what I did, but I --my only motivation was to record video and to just get in the 
3 action. In fact, like while I was in there like I was even screaming, you know, yelling 
4 loudly saying to people, like, be peaceful, don't break anything. Because I remember 
5 hearing, like, something aggressive like maybe like somebody hitting a door or something 
6 and immediately my reaction was just be peaceful, don't break anything. 
7 Other than that, yeah I am definitely pretty apologetic that I did go in that building 
8 after realizing the magnitude of it all. 
9 Q Okay. Then I will just end by saying while we are still on the record that we 
10 really appreciate your time in coming in to talk to us today. It's really helpful for our 
11 mission just to understand, you know, kind of people's motivations for coming there that 
12 day and helps us understand how to prevent that sort of event from happening again in 
13 the future. So thank you very much. 
14 A Absolutely. And if you ever, you know, need to get in contact with me 
15 again for any further questions, I'd be happy to help in any way I can. 
16 Q Okay. Great. That's good to know. Thanks, J.D. 
17 And Ms. Shaner, did you have anything? 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 Ms. Shaner. I have one minor question. 
- Do you want to do it on the record. 
Ms. Shaner. Yeah. 
- Okay. Great. 
BY MS. SHANER: 
Q Who gave you the flier or how did you get the flier on the 5th which told you 
24 about the rallies? 
25 A Honestly I think we just found something on the ground. Because there  54 
1 were people passing stuff out. And it was actually the day of the 6th, not the 5th. So 
2 how did I here about the initial rallies? 
3 
4 
5 day? 
6 
7 Q No. 
A Or the Capitol rally that we heard about that was going to be later in the 
Q 
A No. The rallies in Washington, either on the 5th or the 6th? 
Oh, just the general rallies? I mean, I don't even remember. I think I just 
8 heard of it from my dad and I don't know how he found out. 
9 Q And on the 6th, you found a piece of paper on the ground that people were 
10 handing out. 
11 A Yeah, there was like --I remember seeing, like, a map of where the rallies 
12 would be taking place. And it was like just a basic little map. And I think we found that 
13 on the ground. 
14 And then yeah, I think I maybe, like, followed that up by doing a Google search 
15 just to confirm that there was something going on further before we wasted our time. 
16 But yeah. 
17 
18 
19 Ms. Shaner. Okay. That's my only question. 
- Okay, great. Then with that, I think we can go off the record. 
Well, let me just make sure, does anybody else have anything? -I see you are 
20 still on the call. Do you have any questions? Are you good to go. 
21 Okay. I think that's it then. So we can go off the record it's 11:51 and that's it. 
22 And again, thanks, James. We appreciate it. 
23 
24 
25 Mr. Rahm. Absolutely. 
- Have a good Friday and weekend. 
Mr. Rahm. Thank you, you as well.  55 
1 - Okay. Thanks, Ms. Shaner as well. And also thank you,-for 
2 transcribing us today. 
3 [Whereupon, at 11:52 a.m., the interview was concluded.]  1 
2 
3 Certificate of Deponent/Interviewee 
4 I have read the foregoing __ pages, which contain the correct transcript of the 
5 answers made by me to the questions therein recorded. 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 Witness Name 
Date 56 