To: 
The claims of election fraud have transformed his base into conspiracy theorists and damaged the idea 
of a peaceful transition of power. That's fundamental. And it was done on a whim. 
His character is the subject, you keep trying to bring it back to his record because that's defensible 
Character matters. And that what has done the most damage, especially in the last two days You really can't stay on subject 
The process of this election has been the most damaging. 
Character matters -results matter more. I tie his style to his record. His style has helped him achieve 
what he has achieved. 
His style just took a flamethrower to an inflammatory situation as literally everyone watched in horror. 
Shit even Fox News was just like hoooly fuck is he really doing this 
And his loyal base will believe anything from him. It doesn't matter if the election wasn't rigged, nothing 
will convince them otherwise. He just killed faith in democracy for millions of people 
There were irregularities that need investigating. We will see if they made a significant enough 
difference. Also, this was inflammatory as soon as fucking Democrats barred Republican poll watchers 
in multiple cities. Don't lecture. Democrats set up awful systems prone to chaos 
With that reach and that platform ... "this election is rigged I already won its fraud stolen etc." is just about 
the most fundamental attack I can think of 
It's low class as fuck, and it's brought his base into conspiracy theory territory. Watch the Waters, it's all 
over Facebook. That's public discourse then we don't have principled leaders, and it's a bigger threat to 
democracy than any foreign power 
So the record and the ends justify the means and so forth, but the man is trash and that style of politics 
is either going to be exorcised or it's going to result in civil war Also that does not reflect the totality of the record 
We were concerned about cheating as soon as poll watchers were banned and they created a system of 
mail in ballots that was prone to fraud 
This system was crap 
PM000075  To: 
Orange man made declarative statements and is the leader, of course he's accountable 
Yes he is 100% accountable for his statements and also the fucking president. I think the idea that 
character isn't just as important as policy shows just how far politics has fallen from where it needs to 
be 
One sided blame? Yeah cuz Joe Biden totally came out and said similar shit? And how would "but what 
about the other guy" be a defense 
Dude you gotta get out of DC you've been under the bullshit waters too long 
Dirty politics is not good. 
It's so much about this game y'all are caught up in, you can't even look in the mirror to self assess 
anymore. 
You recognize that what Trump has done is tremendously abnormal and damaging, but you're too close 
to it 
Yes I liked democratic norms that take centuries to build 
Libs are supposed to be the revolutionaries that wreck shit man, not conservat ives People on my side would be suspicious one way or another 
You want to blame the orange man for everything bad 
You are applying one sided blame 
• 
I have believed this for a long time and believe it now 
Says the guy supporting the fucking Democrats 
I say with love 
You liked what was "normal" 
PM000076  To 
The norms that matter. .. so attacking the validity of the election shows me where his priorities are I 
suppose. I wouldn't even know where to watch CNN, I've got Fox on Roku, had that on for the past few 
days 
Trump as an accelerant is a valid theory. By blowing everything up and hoping the pieces land in a more 
pleasing configuration you might get somewhere ... the problem is in the power vacuum that he created 
he just told tens of millions of supporters not to trust in democracy and he's provoked the worst 
partisanship since a literal civil war .... winning at any cost is not healthy politics, and it cannot stand. 
Creating terrible election system(s) is a state's right 
And we can bitch and moan and hate on Nevada but incompetent state bureaucrats isn't the same thing 
as the leader of the free world destroying faith in democracy 
He literally said the election was a fraud on the American people, that it was rigged, and that he had 
fairly won .... the president of the United States said that. Do you understand how big a deal that is? QI 
Click to Download 
tmp.gif 
2.7 MB CD l 
Creating a terrible election system also does that 
PM000077  Thank God for Mike Pence, that man has class and salvaged it 
Terrible systems cause concern of fraud and significant irregularities. The democrat party created that 
system and now *shocker* we are concerned about fraud and irregularities. 
The clear focus of his remarks were that there were major concerns and that all LEGAL votes would be 
counted. He voiced concern about a system that is fucking concerning. 
I support a thorough investigation and a resolution to the lawsuits. If we lose fair and square it is what it 
is. But if there is fraud we should pummel the democrats into the ground for creating a system basically 
designed to accommodate it. Election integrity is critical -the democrats unquestionably undermined 
before, during, and after Election Day. There are many reports of troubling actions by democrat 
precincts in major cities. They may prove to have not had an effect but it's fucking sketching as hell. 
Yeah man I completely agree, the election systems need to take a page from Florida. We have to do 
better, incompetence let this happen Also funny McCain clip: 
Meet the Press: John McCain -SNL 
youtu.be > 
PM000078  To: OJ CD 
Nov 7, 2020, 12:33 PM 
Well, that's the ballgame 
Click to Download 
IMG_3911.heic 
14.2 KB 
The legal challenges are still in play, but him being up in that many states? 
Arizona and Nevada are 270 though right? Not over yet but certainly not looking great. 
All votes are not counted and the lawsuits are not over 
If we win the lawsuits in PA ... the results may very well change 
Recount could shift Georgia 
Arizona is not done counting 
They should not have called this yet -fine to project a win but not good to declare it 
Nevada isn't done counting yet 
True, the final results aren't out. Still, barring a major reversal the odds don't look good 
Click to Download 
IMG_3908 .heic 
33.1 KB 
-PM000079  To: QI © 
Haha yeah man it's got to be a weird time 
Have any of those legal changes made progress? 
Still in their early stages 
It 100% of them are successfu l would it overturn the results of any state? 
McConnell calling Dems out for acknowledging Biden after calling Trump illegitimate is kindof a fun 
reversal of the script. Logically fallacious but when did that ever stop anyone 
Yeah given how tight the margin is in AZ it was early for sure. I believe it would but I am not 100 percent sure how many ballots would be affected by the lawsuits 
I think we just need to wait 
There are a lot of questions about PA where a large amount of the lawsuits are focused on 
Also AZ has not finished counting yet 
GA is in a recount 
Those three states are probably the ones to watch 
There is a path but it is narrow 
They shouldn't have called it yet 
The AZ call by FOX was the big issue in my POV 
PM000080  To: 
I doubt they did it. Probably someone else and they just reported it 
"'theres a lot of hearsay misinformation out there. I read one of the legal challenges ... yelling over the PA 
system was meant to disrupt poll watching. • • 
Not saying there's no validity, but most of this stuff is just more show than substance . I think O for 12 ... if 
there's a real case to be made you guys have to make it... but Trumps tweets don't resemble what's 
being submitted to the courts 
"'i think it almost certainly isn't 
"like tweeting out third hand extrapolation in all caps There's a bunch of shady shit that the Dems pulled at the polls 
We will see if it was big enough to make a difference 
A lot of the stuff was a cluster fuck of maliciousness and I competence 
*incompetence 
I dunno man coming out on election night and saying it was rigged ... pretty transparent 
Again, I don't know for sure it is an extrapolation- that's just my best guess 
Whether there's misconduct or not Trump would claim there is 
We know there was misconduct -we are now just disagreeing on degree and extent 
True. Though that doesn't change the outcome of the election 
Unless there was massive systemic fraud, which so far hasn't been exposed 
That's very true. I just want to know the truth. If it was widespread fraud it would be the most 2020 thing ever 
Maybe this year has one more trick up it's sleeve 
PM000081  To: 01 CD 
Gray zone competition is China and Russia's game plan. And it's not something we have a solid response 
for yet. Military and civilian competition have always been linked, just that line is blurring more 
Also ... 
Click to Download 
IMG_4028.jpeg 
68.1 KB 
Oh boy 
Dude's Twitter is stock full of conspiracies and rage, and a ton of misinformation to rile up the red 
hatters. Meanwhile he's playing golf and hasn't attended a coronavirus task force meeting in "at least 
five months," ... just a deeply flawed and angry old man. 
Click to Download 
IMG_4029.jpeg 
452KB 
"progress!" ... he's gone full retard man. Never go full retard. Even Fox News is like okay but no. He's 
sharing OAN, Newsmax and the Epoch Times ... this is funny now but eventually it'll get sad 
Pence chairs the task force + he obviously gets regular briefing son this. He did a press conference on 
the pandemic two days ago. 
On the other items -we'll see what the lawsuits and recounts unearth 
I think there will be major errors and evidence of fraud/malicious behavior by poll workers 
We'll see though 
I would be surprised if it is enough to swing the full results 
But it would be the most 2020 thing ever 
PM000082  To: 
Want to debate stuff instead? 
Click to Download 
IMG_4061.heic 
22.7 KB 
Hot take, Giuliani is an old man who's like 75% crazy at this point. 
Haha ... .l think Rudy is still pretty damn sharp 
He unearthed a lot of shit on Hunter, helped take out Hillary, and almost single handedly destroyed vast 
chunks of the NY mob back in the day 
The man is a legend 
(Also great work as a crime fighting mayor and leader after 9/11) 
American treasure 
I think he is a tad less charming and tactful in his old age but he's still very intelligent and determined 
He's made a ton of pretty massive claims ... if he can't back them up they're coming for his law license. 
And yeah he was America's Mayor! ... what happened? 
He's making some pretty huge claims without evidence while everyone else is backing down 
Dude when people hit 70 they shouldn't run for office. Everyone that old is just a parody of their former 
selves ~--
He has evidence for a lot of his claims -he does do some shit talking though. People were trying to tar 
Giuliani about Hunter -then he proved Hunter was crooked. They tarred him when he supported trump 
after access Hollywood -then the president won. 
Most of the time he is right 
He still is for the most part what he has always been 
PM000083  To: 
Maybe ... until he's on the bridge of the titanic telling everyone not to panic. There simply isn't a case to 
be made right now and he's acting like there is 
Hunter is a pretty troubled dude. I do think that making a son the main line of attack against a father is 
pretty shitty. Unless there's evidence that the father was involved in misconduct and that whole 
business partner thing was a nothing burger ... I dunno man. Not the best scandal. Benghazi had more 
pizazz OJ CD 
Hunter was up to his ears in illicit foreign dealing off of his family name and there is evidence that his 
father knew about it and may have personally profited from it. The kid wasn't troubled the kid was a 
corrupt piece of shit who got rich helping our nation's adversaries. Dude, he got chinese oligarchs are 
meeting in the fuckin White House and was being paid millions for introductions. That is top grade 
corruption. 
On the election, there is widespread evidence of errors and malicious actions by Dems blocking R poll 
watchers. We will see if there is enough to tilt the outcome in any states -but it certainly should be 
investigated 
The 40 something failed legal cases don't really support that. At this point it's about optics and the 
president being mad. Also the contention that poll watchers are required to audit results (be close 
enough to read the ballots) doesn't make sense. 
It's being investigated rather heavily and the legal cases being made don't match the bellicose 
statements being made by Giuliani and Trump "'a meeting 
Of course it does -they can't do their job if they can't WATCH the polls and the count 
I dunno man this isn't about reality, it's about a guy who doesn't like to lose not wanting to admit he lost. 
Claiming he won the election when there just isn't a path to victory anymore ... 
Watching from 15 feet away, eh good enough • Also most were further away 
And votes were counted in many cases without any supervisions 
PM000084  To: 
Having a red had type look over your shoulder would annoy me too, I'm sympathetic 
So recount them, there are recounts going on no? 
But the idea that massive widespread fraud on a national level ... that's gonna require some evidence 
There is zero evidence of that 
Zero 
And Giuliani is saying Biden will go to prison ... ? 
No there are objections, there's no evidence of widespread fraud 
Fraud is a crime. 
Accusing someone of a crime requires evidence 
And right now ... why would I take Giuliani's word for it It doesn't matter 
If it annoys you .,,,,,. 
It's meant to avoid fraud 
♦liiUi♦~ 
There is certainly evidence of widespread abuse 
Yeah-I doubt that 
Do you know how to prove fraud? 
It's extremely hard 
They destroyed all the guardrails 
Tosto fraud 
PM000085  The election results in Michigan were actually better than in 2016 apparently. By every metric 
Where was the outrage then? 
It was only the crazy Antifa types that were saying not my President 
Ah so I just read up on this 
Wayne county's election discrepancies were 50% less than in 2018. And less than neighboring cities in 
2020 
Aaaaaaaand the two electors who initially refused to certify ... had wanted to certify other cities with 
greater discrepancies 
Just by the numbers, those two people are hypocritical racist assholes who should burn in hell OJ CD 
Now there are weird results 
And we are not supposed to call fowl 
That's not true 
Wayne county has been a fucking disaster 
They had a county that swung 6,000 votes 
•li@N-M: ♦ 
What is that even supposed to mean? 
They aggressive ly blocked poll watchers 
And had large number of votes that had zero supervision 
They boarded up windows, dude 
Someone came up with a bullshit metric and you are running with it 
No 
PM000086  To: 
Let me pull this back up 
Also firing Chris Krebs ... just lol 
The justification: in some precincts in Detroit The number or ballots cast didn't match the number of 
voters counted to turn out. But the Michigan Secretary of State vehemently denies thesis is unusual or 
objectionable and said they were talking about several dozen ballots explained by "voters leaving long 
line, an absentee ballot kicked out of a tabulator, etc. a comprehensive audit is underway. All evidence 
we currently have shows the election was run with no evidence of widespread fraud in fact there were 
simply minor clerical errors" 
The fact that those two officials certified Livonia but no Wayne, when Livonia had FIVE TIMES the 
discrepancy of ballots cast to voters who turned out ... sure that's not partisan. 
Anyway they just unanimously certified Wayne County. 
Long story short: there is absolutely no evidence at this time of fraud, certainly nothing widespread 
enough to change the outcome of any of these states and CERTAINLY nothing to indict Biden in criminal 
conspiracy . Giuliani is full of shit 
Patrick that's not why the election wasn't certified 
No it is not. It's an indicator that fraud can't be disproven at this time. Thus the investigation 
And no it was not part of the calculation We're poll watchers stopped from seeing the count? 
That's not true 
Poll watchers were blocked 
That is an indicator of fraud 
It was almost certainly part of the calculation 
Of the two people? 
Read 
PM000087  To: 
Yes 
Haha 
I just read what they wrote! 
Jesus haha 
And by the way the investigations are ongoing. So far. .. nothing o CD 
How do you know that? 
Is there by chance a possibility that they were concerned about additional things that they didn't write 
down 
So the claims of widespread criminal conspiracy are based ooooooon what, suspicion alone? 
Can't prove a negative: the fucking theme of these legal arguments which have been thrown out 
0-40 
The investigations are ongoing. So far nothing. That is a fact 
Yeah way to go Graham haha trying to suggest voter fraud 
Dude there are investigations going. They've turned up nothing so far. 
In the absence of evidence ... There is a broader context at play 
Voter fraud is really hard to prove -that's why you have poll watchers 
And signature verification 
Both blown out of the water by Dems 
Signature verification is a critical element with mail in ballots 
PM000088  To: 
You have suspicion of poll watchers ... thus the investigations 
But that is not proof. And the insistence without ANY evidence ... is shit. Also firing Chris Krebs ... 
Can we circle back to that? o: CD 
Poll watchers were blocked all over the place 
They can't prove fraud or error without signature verification 
On the mail in ballots 
Dude if you're suggesting that poll watchers not being able to read the ballots is proof of voter fraud you 
need to examine what proof is. There are investigations and recounts going 
And something like 100 million people voted by mail in ballot yes? 
Myself included 
In some states yes 
Those ballots aren't enough to reverse the count anyway, but yeah that's why there are investigations 
going 
This isn't a sham, it certainly doesn't indicate fraud 
You need proof dude 
So far, despite 40 legal cases and two weeks ... absolutely nothing. Signature verification is in the law 
The law is being violated 
In PA and GA 
Among others 
You can't prove anything without signature verification on the mail ins 
PM000089  To: 
You can't prove a negative! 
Circular logic 
They're doing a recount! 
In GA right? 
And the most votes a recount has ever reversed ... what, a thousand? 
What's the margin in GA? 
And if GA reversed ... the election outcome isn't in doubt man it's time to acknowledge that 
GA and PA both going for Trump 
Biden still wind 
Okay let's say both PA and GA go to Trump 
Which, they won't. Because math. [lJ (D 
Then let us match the signatures 
As the law requires 
They are not allowed to look at the signatures in GA 
Because of a consent decree 
It's like 10,000 
,.a .• s:• ► J 
44i:,IIM+ih 
Only it was the PA Supreme Court being politics 
-
PM000090  To: 
But say they do 
Biden has 270 
Thus the investigations, it's important to dispel doubt 
But that's not what Trump is doing on Twitter 
He's conspiracy peddling for his own gain 
Without proof and without regard for what that does to the county 
Even if all those ballots are thrown out doesn't it not change the outcome? 
I'm pretty sure it doesn't 
And if it did. It still doesn't change the electoral college 
This is getting ridiculous 
If a bunch of people's ballots were thrown out, maybe. 
But how many would be Ok. I just want the process to be done fairly 
Also there is an investigation in NV 
It's not a real investigation without the signatures 
It is not legitimate 
We can't get proof of without the signatures 
No -GA could definitely flip 
Kemp should be primaried right to hell 
I just want a legit process 
PM000091  To: 
And that's totally fair 
But investigations and recounts are legit. And the stuff Giuliani is saying far exceeds any evidence 
That's fucking with it 
What are the odds that all of these, in GA, Republican officials are in on it? 
Or, that a deeply selfish man who called into question the 2016 election which he WON, would contest 
the results of a election which he lost? Dl CD 
Dems are fucking with it 
GA consent decree was a violation of the law and a stupid cave by Kemp -who is desperately trying to 
appeal to moderates. PA Supreme Court royally fucked around on their process. 
Sure and both of those states going for Trump don't matter. I will say that in PA the late votes counted 
were like what, a couple hundred? 
It's not that those things aren't above reproach. It's that the claims vastly outrun the evidence to the 
point where it's becoming farsical 
And Trump is telling millions of people that he won the election. How long until one of those guys tries to 
assassinate Biden to stop the steal. It's irresponsible 
Well, we don't really know the extent on the mail ins. They had high failure rates in primaries -and now 
we can't patrol them even remotely effectively. 
I don't think that's gonna happen -I think at the worst this is the only way we get a real recount. 
Otherwise people would just phone it in. Look, not doing the signature verification is blatant cheating on 
a potentially massive scale. There are real issues and process problems that never can be allowed to 
happen again. 
People denying there are issues (including Biden) are being just as farcical and far more dishonest 
Why aren't we having this conversation about Florida, which had more mail in votes than anybody? And 
it's not that there aren't issues. It's that those issues don't cast doubt on the result, and that they 
certainly don't imply massive widespread criminal conspiracy 
I just wish they bought me dinner first 
PM000092  PM000093  To: 
Reaching out to election officials and these antics are sadly not surprising, but wildly inappropriate . Your 
old boss sucks donkey balls. 
Nov 19, 2020, 3:35 PM 
Haha did he actually crown her or just read the envelope wrong ... oh he called it lol 
Fake news Steve Harvey 
Click to Download 
IMG_4069.jpeg 
414KB 
Oh yeah I suppose still for a bit.. .. meanwhile an "Open and shut case of voter fraud. Massive 
numbers" ... dude just doesn't know how to stop lying does he 
The really shitty part is he, you, and everyone else knows he's lying and doesn't care because it's 
expedient. This really is beyond the pale, but the truth doesn't really matter anymore 
Nov 20, 2020, 11:37 AM o CD 
Former boss? 
Click to Download 
Screenshot 2020-11- ... 
180KB 
·NIMM+. 
PM000094  Nov 21, 2020, 4:02 PM 
So I was driving around listening to Ben Shapiro, the Georgia signatures issues was bullshit all along? 
They were matched with signatures but during the recount you couldn't because remarking would that 
would mean matching the ID to the actually vote itself which is constitutional because anonymity ... and 
all disputed signatures went to a board of democrats and republicans the first time who had no way of 
knowing what the actual vote was for ... 
And all Giuliani said was "well if you can't recheck the signatures they should all be thrown out because 
you can't disprove fraud" .... but they were checked the first time. 
And this Sydney Powell lady is saying some absolutely treasonously dishonest shit and providing zero 
evidence. Ben Shapiro and Tucker Carlson are both calling bullshit... these allegations without evidence 
are PR ... Even the pundits on the right are frustrated. OJ CD 
I don't like Powell -on the signatures I'm not sure they were all checked the first time. There has been 
concern that they were confirmed without checking -per those calling for re-checking them. It's not 
quite a recount when you're not verifying signatures 
True though Ben walked through the process the first time and they were checked the first time. Any 
signatures that were in question went to a bipartisan committee who had to unanimously agree 
So you can't legally recheck the signatures once the privacy envelope has been opened ... I mean you 
can't disprove it but is the solution to disenfranchise on suspicion? 
And Powell talking about Hugo Chavez ... who's been dead since 2013 ... lol wut. Main way of verifying absentees 
Signature verification is much more of an issue in PA 
No ... l think we should recheck the signatures to ensure there were not mistakes lower down the food 
chain 
It's unconstitutional to do that 
I don't know if that is true 
get Georgia to change it's constitution I guess 
Yeah because it means you'd identify each voter with their vote 
PM000095  To: OJ (D 
That is not necessarily unconstitutional....l don't believe that the constitution calls for a secret ballot 
Because that was not the way things were done for a good chunk of US history 
I could be forgetting an amendment but I don't think so 
Yeah it's the Georgia state constitution apparently 
The elections are all state by state and there's limited federal ability to force a state to do ... well, 
anything really 
Ah -that's what ur referring to -does it pertain specifically to absentee ballots 
And Specifically to signature verification, yes. Because to check the signature, you have to take an 
opened ballot and match it with the records 
If the ballot is sealed, anonymity is maintained. After it's been counted and separated from the envelope 
it's hard to redo it. But the initial process was sound ... 
I think at a certain point re-litigating everything is less about reasonable doubt and more about grasping 
at straws • 
No -does the amendment specify absentee ballots? 
Isn't the signature still on the ballot when the vote is counted? 
No it's on the privacy envelope on the outside 
You have two envelopes. You put your ballot in the privacy envelope and seal it and sign the outside 
To open the ballot you tear the privacy envelope. Not sure if they keep the envelope or just the ballot 
once they've verified it Are they fully separated at any point? 
I believe they are kept together 
Otherwise there could be issues with the count 
PM000096  I would guess that they would have to 
They would at least have to keep the signatures separately -they couldn't just destroy it 
Therefore we should be able to look at the signatures 
If we just have the privacy envelope 
At that point we would at least see the scope of the problem 
We wouldn't even need to see the vote 
So they did verify on the front end, the signatures. One democrat, one Republican, and one staffer 
All had to agree in order for the ballot to be verified 
Haha there are also three people claiming that someone brought in a truckload of ballots in Detroit 
But then that legal case mysteriously didn't happen That's not always the case 
There have been complaints on this subject 
So count the signatures again 
This shouldn't be controversial 
There has been far more widespread concerns regarding poll watchers being blocked 
That would effect something like this 
A lot of those claims have been rebuffed as well turns out 
There may be insufficient proof in some cases but that's not very easy to prove 
The whole PA injunction to keep them closer came last minute and it was unevenly enforced 
And there are very credible complaints on this subject 
That's true but right now there's zero evidence of wide scale anything, let alone fraud 
PM000097  To: 
And the legal team is claiming ... that Dominion takes bribes from politicians to switch votes 
Apparently it's unconstitutional, I'm not a lawyer, but I can find the decision 
It came back yesterday 
Eh, they already certified the election. Georgia's over this man they hand recounted, and went yep good 
enough 
You can't Uncertify an election, but for future reference yeah maybe change things OJ CD 
Let us count the signatures and we can move on 
That is eminently possible and reasonable 
"that is in reference to counting signatures 
Probably will be appealed 
They have certified it -I still want to know 
People need closure on this and the signatures are a major sticking point 
Just count those and we can put GA to bed 
There'll never be closure, because there's a good group of people that will never believe the results 
unless they're for the candidate they want 
A lot of this suspicion is manufactured 
The Trump legal team is claiming there were major abuses Unless .... we find out that there were major abuses 
They will in GA 
Some states are too much of a mess to get closure 
PM000098  To: 
Haha they did 
They can't legally recount them 
Don't be mad at me be mad at Georgia's constitution 
Haha this is from Ben Shapiro man, I mean it is what it is 
Also even if they did and GA flipped ... it wouldn't change the outcome anyway. Litigating this until the 
loser is happy works to a point ... and that point is a hand recount and certification 
And who's been paying for all this? It should be Trump at this point 
The state's satisfied and certified OJ CD 
Then let them count the signatures in GA 
Prove them wrong 
Not in the recount 
·+H+Hi·i+ 
I seriously doubt that 
I am annoyed at whoever passed down that ruling 
•Ediiii♦ 
Shapiro is a good guy 
But everyone is wrong sometimes 
·-&·• Or did he just report how the case was decided? 
It's the campaign and RNC I think 
The state is run by squishes 
And people afraid of the coming recounts 
PM000099  To: 
The Republican legislature and Republican Secretary of State are the ones who certified the results too 
They already recounted it man ... it's over 
Ah gotcha. But all three are Republicans 
S000000000? 
It's certified ... the legal cases have been dropped ... it's legally over 
Yeah that initial claim was dropped and a Trump appointed US circuit court judge dismissed the Fulton 
one on Thursday a CD 
The Secretary of State and governor did 
ldk about the legislature 
It's not over till its over 
Gotta get those signatures 
I don't know if that's true 
I would be very surprised if the signature case is not appealed 
I could be wrong ... but I doubt it 
Btw .... l'm not the one saying that the current outcome is gonna get overturned . I have seen and heard 
examples of abuse and want it fully adjudicated 
"There is no evidence submitted to reasonable suspect the results are tainted with impropriety" 
Cases that are dismissed can be appealed 
"a Trump judge said that 
Meh -we appoint some independently minded people 
PM000100  To: 
Isn't that a good thing? 
Independently minded people are always better than loyalist hacks 
And a judge, one who isn't a hack, called bullshit ... 
Yeah haha it only bites you in the ass if you don't have a legitimate case ... 
Well this isn't a one off. 1-32 legal record so far 
That's true 
But sadly I also know how Trump's legal team works 
It just makes shit up for PR 
And then doesn't present evidence in court 
... no they haven't. Have you listened to Shapiro and Carlson? Just ask Gordy how 
It is -but it bites us in the ass sometimes 
We like an independent judiciary 
- It's possible they just got it wrong 
You don't know how the judiciary works, bud 
Good judges get things wrong all the time 
Even Scalia and Thomas missed the mark soemtjmes 
Yes they have -about most of their claims 
PM000101  They really haven't. 
Worse, they say fraud to the cameras and then explicitly don't to the judge 
Giuliani too 
What evidence? 
Haha because the story being told by everyone is ... "the kraken" is just PR 
Does it show voter fraud? 
Spoiler ... it does not 
And that's in their words 
No haha that was the whole point of Carlson and Shapiro 
The testimony that they claimed to have ... hasn't materialized -
You are referring to Powell 
The legal team has shown evidence in court 
They have several hundred pages of written testimony 
In multiple cases 
-
The testimony does claim it under oath 
No it wasn't 
What Carlson piece are you talking about? 
PM000102  To: 
Not one case brought forward is attempting to claim fraud 
Not sure which day this was, maybe Thursday. But the claims are procedural, not about fraud. There has 
been no evidence submitted of any fraud in Georgia ... and then that same team comes out to the 
Cameras and claims they have evidence. It's like McCarthy holding up a list of communists, it's all for the 
base. And that level of dishonesty is criminal. Sydney Powell is lying her ass off, and anyone with half a 
brains knows she is ... it's just surreal that that's the legal team 
Yes but no evidence or claims of certifying bad votes have been submitted in a court of law, and the poll 
watchers details when they came out ... were less sensational than initially advertised. Thus the hand 
recount, just to make sure 
And, yeah, that's done now 
The recount and signatures, yes QI G.) 
He did one on Powell 
He didn't hammer this subject to my knowledge 
Wait ... are we only talking about GA? 
Oh .... l was talking more generally -in GA they should just verify the signatures and put it to bed. GA is 
not the biggest point of concern but I refuse to count that as a real recount when the absentees were 
not really rechecked 
Well the in person votes weren't rechecked either 
It's not something you can really do in a recount 
That would require a re-vote 
Yeah on the first one Absentees which we know leaned Dem 
They had to show ID 
PM000103  To: 
Yeah on the first one 
The ballots after that ... they didn't recheck it 
Both absentee and in person ballots weren't rechecked 
Because they can't be 
In an election you can never prove a negative. But that's not evidence. 
Yeah they did that 
You can't verify identify 
Which is the point of the signature or the ID The folks that did the absentees didn't 
And absentees are more subject to fraud 
Recheck the signatures 
Also they do various things to verify the in person votes 
You check how many people voted and cross check the totals -you also re-run software 
That's how you check the in person vote 
The signatures are needed for absentees 
There's no way to check an ID or a signature after the ballots been cast. You can only recount the ballots 
That's true but you can use other means to certify the legitimacy of the in person vote 
Like what? 
The only means with absentees is the signatures 
Read 
PM000104  To: OJ CD 
You can't certify that a vote cast in person was legitimate during a recount any more than you could a 
mail in ballot 
I just said: cross check the number of votes+ match with total. Also check number of registered votes 
and ultimate vote and check software 
Absentee get individual scrutiny 
Because they are individually cast 
Yes that doesn't verify identity, just accounts for the number of ballots 
You can't verify that the ballot itself is legitimate, just that non were added after the fact 
The in person vote is different and subject to different kinds of fraud 
That's not the point 
You can't take an in person ballot and verify that it is legitimate 
Yes during the first count 
Not during the recount 
How are in person votes more secure on the back end? 
The ballot is identical You have in person scrumptious 
cu;:;;;,;;~ 
0mg: YES. They are different. The in person vote is far more secure on the front end and at the back 
end. Absentee votes are not 
Therefore they get different scrutiny 
You watch people on the front end with poll watchers, voter ID, etc. and on the backend you are able to 
verify that the totals are not padded or software is not corrupted. The in person vote is corrupted in 
mass when there is fraud. Absentee votes are corrupted individually. 
PM000105  To: o CD 
Therefor you use different methods 
You are talking about no real scrutiny on the back end for absentees 
If ballots are manufactured and dumped into the piles yes, but individual identification is identificat ion. 
It's done once in either case 
If you vote, they make sure you're you. And then your ballot gets added 
The distinction is two different types of fraud. dumping ballots vs individuals posing as others 
What's the verification on the back end? 
Exactly 
There is exactly one gate ballots pass through. If you're absentee: signature. If you're in person: ID 
And in either case, there is no capability to recheck during a recount 
Haha apparently you can't There is verification on the back end with in person vote 
There is not in this case 
Please scroll up to the two times I already explained it 
You are asking for individual verification for in mass voting 
Which is impossible 
It is possible with individual voting 
That's false, you can check the signatures 
Which is the only way they checked the absentees in the first place 
Now we are discussing a constitution neither of us are familiar with 
PM000106  But why should votes be discarded because they can't re-verify? 
Throwing out votes and disenfranchising thousands of people on the grounds that you can't recheck 
them CJ'.J CD 
I'm not saying votes should be discarded 
I want to recheck the signatures, see the scope of the problem (if there is one), and go from there 
If we find signature issues with only a few thousand ballots we're 
Haha it would be nice. But it's not legal apparently 
They were checked on the front end, and found to be fine 
You just have to trust the state of Georgia -
There are complaints on the process and I don't make a habit of trusting people I haven't met 
And am not familiar with 
I'll live with it 
That's true ... but this is a procedural complaint... it's not alleging massive voter fraud, which is what 
Trump is doing 
Trump's legal team is taking these sort of procedural things and showing it as proof that he won the 
election 
It doesn't. It's asking the states to prove there wasn't voter fraud ... that's a critical difference But I would prefer we counted them 
That procedural complaint amounts to voter fraud, dude 
If you are counting illegitimate votes -you are accommodating and perpetrating fraud 
Yes and the question is "if" that happened 
PM000107  To: 
There "might be" fraud is very different than "I won the election by a lot" 
Haha Biden should contest Florida just to make a point 
And the same argument would hold 
I believe Florida would be just as difficult to verify ... 
They have the same envelope system where you sign over the seal 
Yeah like a hand recount. But signature verification is one of those tricky ones apparently Q CD 
Yes! That's why we want the signatures 
We can't prove shit until we have the raw data to inspect 
We have as much evidence as we can at this stage 
This is the problem that has always existed when it comes to fraud 
You need both witnesses and the raw data 
·did::-
I'm happy for us to turn over all data 
Every signature and piece of software 
I think state governments should help 
In every way they can 
Voter integrity is a big deal 
Total transparency is required 
Not tricky to me 
If there is a real issue with the constitutions I certainly would be happy to support amendments 
PM000108  To: 
Click to Download 
IM G_ 4088.j peg 
498KB Nov 21, 2020, 7:57 PM 
"last major suit in PA just got thrown out: "Strained legal arguments without merit and speculative 
accusations unsupported by evidence" 
I was more focusing on the "without merit and speculative accusations unsupported by evidence" part 
Appointment doesn't isn't the independent variable in these court cases 
I'm not sure it is gratuitous honestly, look at the claims made vs the evidence presented 
Speculative? Yep, by definition. Unsupported by evidence is factual as well 
Poor Fox News is gonna lose their shirt trying to report this DI CD 
We'll see if it is appealed 
Apparently, the judge is an Obama appointee 
I'm talking about the gratuitous langauage 
Cii,i•il. 
Testimony is evidence -they may have used overly broad claims at the outset I guess 
We'll see what happens with appeals 
It is what it is one way or another 
Gotta let the process work out 
PM000109  [)J © 
I agree man. Just I don't think Giuliani and Trump are about sober respect for the process. Hopefully all 
these legal findings put to bed the claims of Venezuelan electioneering 
Yeah the larger the manipulation the harder it is to hide Eh -I think some folks are gonna be spooked about the dominion voting machines one way or another 
I think they would ideally be inspected and replaced 
But I would be pretty surprised if they were being systematically manipulated 
I do wonder what the point of a voting machine is ... maybe they can't be counted fast enough by hand to 
give results on election night? 
They are generally easier and more convenient -ideally they are more accurate than a normal human 
count 
That kind of a tech manipulation is hard to keep quiet I would think 
.... but then again I am but a simple country boy -not a fraud genius 
Yeah given that they have one job, I'd hope they would do it well but I just shoot missiles I can't program 
them. 
PM000110  To: 
Nov 27, 2020, 3:09 PM 
"Free, fair elections are the lifeblood of our democracy," Judge Stephanos Bibas, a Trump appointee, 
wrote on behalf of the appeals court. "Charges of unfairness are serious. But calling an election unfair 
does not make it so. Charges require specific allegations and then proof. We have neither here." Jenna 
Ellis, one of Mr. Trump's lawyers, wrote on Twitter that she and Rudolph W. Giuliani, who is leading the 
postelection legal effort, planned to appeal to the United States Supreme Court. In her Twitter post, Ms. 
Ellis accused "the activist judicial machinery in Pennsylvania" of covering up "allegations of massive 
fraud" despite the fact that all three judges on the panel were appointed by Republicans. 
"'Are they ever going to stop this charade? 
Nov 27, 2020, 4:09 PM 
Once lawsuits are appealed and completed -this will be over. 
We'll see if everything continues on the current path 
The legal picture looks fairly bleak -we have rays of hope every now and then but we haven't really 
gotten a solid win on something big. 
Every court that's heard them thinks the merit of these lawsuits is nonexistent. .. it's just PR. But it's PR 
at the expense of our institutions. These guys are getting their day in court, but it's pretty clear they 
don't have anything to say. 
Hung out with a bunch of Trump voters yesterday. It's anecdotal but the term "sore loser" came up like 
five times 
A very large amount of the party feels the election was unfair. I think that's largely true. But my primary 
objection is to the media cabal and tech censorship. There are still many institutions in this country 
rigged against the interests of every day Americans. The elites have done severe harm to their fellow 
citizens -they have earned the lack of trust and scorn. 
On fraud ... l am primarily seeing bad and pervasive process issues that disproportionately hurt 
republicans . 
A very large amount of your party believes what the president says, and he's making claims without 
evidence. That's bad for the country 
The media cabal are biased against Trump. That's not fraud, and that's what's being alleged here 
PM000111 -,  To: o CD 
Well....correct, that's not what the lawsuits are about. I am saying that it is what I primarily object to. 
There were also severe process issues that make proving fraud very difficult -but there are indicators. It 
seems the issue in many cases is that we can identify problems but the solutions don't seem to jive with 
the judges. You can prove that there was misbehavior but you can't prove what ballots were effected -
nor can you really ax a bunch of ballots without clear evidence each one is fraudulent. 
Again: I am more concerned that a huge amount of the system is fundamentally skewed against 
conservatives. The media, tech giants, Hollywood, talk shows, and academia all are opposed to trump 
and Republicans. Even major corporations are getting extremely woke. It's understandable btw that 
some republicans get overly paranoid about a system plotting against them -because the system is 
plotting against them. It may not be as pervasive as they sometimes think but it is certainly severe. 
The media, tech giants, Hollywood ... aren't the ones being sued in Pennsylvania 
And the idea that the system is rigged will eventually result in violence 
Yes, it's the leadership of the state that gutted the election law that is getting sued. 
And thrown out with prejudice 
Republicans haven't rioted true. How long until someone tried to kill Biden? 
The election system is not rigged. You can bitch about the media but it's an important distinction 
The media is rigged against Trump. His name is actually being censored out now 
sayin that the election system is rigged is a call to violence. If peaceful means are denied, what's left 
The election system is not rigged. 
There is no evidence of widespread fraud Republicans haven't rioted 
The system is rigged 
Acknowledging that the system is rigged is not a call to violence 
It's not a call to violence, the system is rigged, no high ranking Republican has called for violence. 
PM000112  To: 
The system is like saying "then man" 
The ELECTION system is not rigged. Votes are not stolen. The election was free. 
Giuliani should sue CNN and not the state of Pennsylvania 
His message is the election was fraudulent. That is very different than media bias. Don't pretend it isn't 
Loyalty to party can't possibly distort logic that much. o CD 
The system has clearer meaning than that 
There are issues with PA. Did you see what their Supreme Court did to the election law in the state? 
As in it extended the period of receiving late ballots? 
Yes a true bastardization of democratic principles ... 
Is this the old "recheck the signatures" thing? 
Well doesn't the Supreme Court decide how the law is interpreted? 
Oh the US Supreme Court gotcha 
Wait they just extended the deadline to receive votes ... that's like a couple thousand votes max. And it's 
a procedural issue ... not fraud, nor would it change the outcome of the election. YET Trump and his, at 
this point I don't know what else to call them, minions are claiming it would without evidence And no signature verification 
Two violations of the election law 
The Supreme Court was tied • It should go back to the court 
The state Supreme Court changed the law 
PM000113  To: 
No -it was a three day extension. This effected at least 10,000 votes I believe. The US Supreme Court 
said that they had to keep those ballots separate and now there is evidence that election officials mixed 
them with the other ballots. They also removed the signature requirement which was a ridiculous 
overreach. 
Okay so it affects 10,000 votes 
What's Biden's margin in PA? 
Throw those votes out today, and assume all of them are for Biden 
Heck give PA to Trump. Georgia too .... the outcome remains the same. The idea that this election was 
stolen by fraud is intellectually dishonest. This is a HUGE process issue 
Wisconsin also has process issues with an insane number of people saying they couldn't come to the 
polls because they are infirmed. There are indications many were lying and may have been trying to 
circumvent the photo ID requirement of in person voting. Again, I am pointing to glaring process issues 
that raise suspicion and concern. I am not 100 percent sold that this was stolen -but they created a 
system susceptible to stealing . 
Not 100 percent sold that it was stolen?? 
Dude 
Jesus Christ really? Is the administration that high on its own supply? 
So there's just a nibbling doubt that Trump didn't really win all those battleground states? 
I am not sold that it was stolen. But don't pretend that this was a fair election -there are glaring issues 
I think elections should be fair in that votes should be freely cast and counted. As far as the media bias, 
propaganda, ad dollars ... all the stuff external to the actual election- politics is a full contact sport. 
Trump loves that sort of crap, complaining when it comes back in your face is kindof goofy but besides 
that, those things don't make the actual election itself unfair. 
There's a large percentage of this country that hates Donald Trump. Especially college educated people, 
and those people control tech, the media, and every other lever of power ... what can be done about 
that? 
PM000114  To: 
The leader of the Republican Party is Trump 
That's not the extreme 
Like 90% of congressman won't acknowledge the election 
You guys have lost your fucking minds, that's not facebook's fault 
Plenty of others did 
He's spread tons of lies 
Is spreading ... shall I look at his Twitter? 
And yes he has retweet QAnon QI CD 
He didn't spread Q theories 
That's not what you literally just said 
You are engaging in a mobile argument 
He retweeted people who retweeted Q stuff on the side. Not everyone that was retweeted was vetted 
through FBI background check 
Haha the argument is the Republican Party is engaging in intentional lying on a massive scale. And the 
evidence is Trump and you guys going along with it. 
You guys are just straight up lying about the election. What the hell is wrong with your party? 
They are concerned about an election system that your side intentionally fucked with. 
Patrick 
You guys are lying about the election 
You all are saying there was NOTHING wrong with the process 
•1¥Mi4l 
PM000115  I'm saying the process is legitimate 
You guys are saying it isn't 
And you know it 
It's cowardice 
Some are saying it is completely illegitimate -some are saying that the lawsuits should be heard and 
should conclude. The Dems messed with the process and broke election laws -I want it all adjudicated. 
Then we can move on but I want all malfeasance exposed and court cases heard. 
The line being maintained by your party, and by the vast majority of your elected officials, is that Donald 
Trump won this election 
And that it was stolen by massive fraud. That's the line. That's obvious not true 
No 
Most of the party won't acknowledge that Joe Biden won 
They are lying. And they're doing it for political gain. 
And because they're afraid of Trump 
It's moral cowardice, I'll never respect the guys who do this again 
Obviously that will not reverse the election No it's not -some certainly say that but that is not what the party is saying 
Much of the party is saying that there was fraud. 
• 
Yes -because they think there was fraud and want the process to be adjudicated 
Meh -y'all lack the courage to acknowledge that wrong doing occurred and should not happen again 
PM000116  To: 
And there is no evidence of Fraud, ask Bill Barr or any of the 47 legal cases thatve been thrown out 
No don't meh this 
You guys are lying about the election 
Is Joe Biden the president elect, yes or no? 
Did Joe Biden win the election? 
He's been certified above 270 so technically yes 
Yes he has, Georgia put him over 
And by the way, this is laughably semantic 
Did 
Joe 
Biden 
Win 
The ducking 
Election You weren't gonna respect a bunch of these folks anyway 
About fraud? 
Election laws being violated? 
Technically speaking, no. 
There is an official process that has not been activated 
No he hasn't 
That's false 
PM000117 1  To: 
Jesus 
Christ 
It's not about politics it's about reality and common god damned sense if the Republican Party can't 
acknowledge reality they have no business calling themselves conservatives 
And this sort of propaganda bullshit is cowardly. So don't complain about being persecuted, this shit is 
scummy you deserve it 
Politics has warped reality to the point where facts get to be optional. Facts and reality aren't optional. 
This is fucking insane. And your entire party is engaging in unpatriotic, irresponsible, deliberate lying 
So ... What color is the sky? Did Joe Bid en win this election? OJ CD 
Electoral college has not voted and there is no such thing as the "office of the president elect.'' Your 
party engaged in unpatriotic, irresponsible, and deliberate violations of election laws -so don't preach. 
I understand the likely outcome of many of these court cases -but they should be heard. I'll accept the 
result when the vote actually happens. 
The fact that there is unprecedented mail in ballots and somehow ballot rejections declined in multiple 
states -is almost unheard of. There are many things that raise concern and I want those concerns 
adjudicated. 
Your opinion of conservatism is somewhat suspect -gosh, you have such extreme contempt for their 
opinions it's difficult to take seriously when you say trump supporters shouldn't call themselves 
conservative. 
I'm contemptuous of Trump, and those who indulge his delusions at the expense of country 
I'm surprised how many people are indulging him 
And it pretty thoroughly discredits the Republicans who do 
The Republican Party is basically all in on Trumpism 
And right now Trumpism is all about deliberate ly lying for political gain. Also trying to get states to send 
their own electors ... which is tantamount to subverting democracy but because it was so feebly done 
that's not even news You've made clear it goes beyond that 
PM000118  The phantom of suspicion, the suggestion that there could be doubt is a million miles away from "the 
election was rigged, so send Republican electors" 
I may not like the democrats, but I absolutely fucking hate Donald Trump and his inability to tell the 
truth. He's got to be the most selfish, flawed man we've ever put in that office and that is truly saying 
something OJ CD 
It's not phantoms of suspicion or suggestions of doubt. There are serious election concerns. Your 
inability to acknowledge that, is not ideal. 
I don't ask you to like Trump -but I would hope you would see that there are major issues that need to 
be fixed. You could always say that Biden won, while also saying that the democrats did a lot of very bad 
stuff. 
There is no evidence to suggest widespread voter fraud. Ask Bill Barr, or honestly anyone. No one has 
any evidence 
No one 
Saying the election is in doubt is lying 
And it's doing so at the expense of the country for political gain. 
That is morally wrong. You've either convinced yourself there actually is something to this conspiracy 
theory, or you're cynically playing along to avoid retaliation. Either way what the hell dude. 
"The Nazis didn't conquer France because there's technically Vichy ... " "you can't explain how the moon 
got there" "Donald Trump is right to say he was elected president but it was stolen from him" 
There's more compelling evidence for UFOs than for this election being rigged. Actually, there's pretty 
good evidence for UFOs. There's no evidence at all for the election being rigged. Zero. None. Nothing. 
"You could also say that Biden won, while also saying that democrats did a lot of bad stuff" Sure and 
that's a valid thing to do, but that's not what the Republican Party is doing is it? Instead, they're lying 
through their teeth. 
You haven't particularly paid attention to exactly what I have said. You have prescribed every right 
leaning opinion to me ... many of which I don't hold. 
Again, I must pinch myself at being lectured to on public morality by someone that last month wasn't 
particular ly bothered by violent riots. Alas, one always finds their sense of outrage when it is convenient. 
PM000119  To: 
What you've said is dancing around the question: did Joe Biden win this election. 
And I'm bothered by riots, I'm not surprised by them. That's the state of political discourse in this 
country, and evidence of that is how one party won't even acknowledge an election. 
You want a low grade civil war? This is how you get a civil war. 
I'm far more outraged by the actions of leaders than of random thugs in the street. And the fact that 
you're not is selective outrage 
Joe Biden is old and has dumb ideas. Donald Trump is actively trying to subvert an election and the 
peaceful transfer of power. Tell me which one would the founding fathers be more threatened by? QI <D l 
It appears to me, that if everything continues down the current path, Biden will become president. In 
that case, he obviously will have been found to have won the election and the result should be 
acknowledged. I do believe that the process was cripplingly flawed and that Dems broke the law. That is 
why I support the lawsuits and more investigation into every part of the process. The problem is that 
they poisoned the process and now we have to swallow it because in many cases there is no way to 
undo what they did or access the degree of damage. 
The damage they did being done in Georgia, a Republican run state with strict voting laws? 
This is a particular issue in PA but different degrees in other states 
I get the complaint in PA. I don't agree with it, and neither does the judiciary but that's a fair complaint 
Well the judiciary didn't really make a call -they punted 
That's rooted in reality 
Why aren't the majority of Republican elected officials doing the same? 
Functionally speaking, you can't say that a state's election process was crippled and then say that the 
result of the crippled process should be approved. It's fruit of a poison tree. 
PA didn't decide the election though 
And the number of votes in question didn't decide PA for that matter 
It's a procedural issue that doesn't affect the outcome 
PM000120  That's true, we're fewer ballots than usual thrown out? Ol (D 
Well...we don't know that second part -there is evidence that ballots were shuffled into the Election Day 
total. Also, signature verification in PA was basically scrapped -hard to know how many ballots that 
affected. 
I believe so -smaller percentage at least 
Yeah that's valid. The margin to doubt would be the delta between the norm and this election 
And since more than half of those votes are Biden 
(Much more than half -I think they were 2-1 Biden) 
That said I've had trouble with signature verification too before, they throw out valid votes a lot too 
I can understand philosophical concern -but that's the law 
And I know people who were frustrated their ballot got thrown out and weren't able to cure them 
Did this happen in other states with a lot of mail in ballots, like FL? I like the need for some concrete verification but even if I didn't -it's the law and it needs to be 
enforced. 
FL is much more used to mail in ballots -they had an existing system in place. They definitely did 
signature verification and didn't mess with their process last minute. 
•1 should say: they are used to a high degree of absentee ballots 
PM000121 1  To: Ol (D 1 
Also on the PA case, it just got shut down by the Supreme Court unanimous ly. I'm no lawyer ... but they 
are. I think that's a wrap 
Click to Download 
IMG_4311.jpeg 
385KB 
Haha how much you want to bet? Unanimous, ouch 
Also how about that veto proof majority for the NOAA. 
Checked, balanced , mated TX also sued PA, WI, and GA -we'll see if they reject that one too 
Sorry, I'm just looking forward to this whole absurd episode being over so real work can get done. 
We'll see on TX case -not ideal what happened today. 
NOAA: it was a veto proof majority in House idk what wlll happen in senate. I would be surprised if they 
get a veto proof situation in the upper chamber. So not check mate. 
"Real work" ;;; selling out the interests of American workers. 
PM000122  To: 
And every word out of his mouth wasn't a self serving lie ... I'm checking Trump's Twitter again it's 
entertaining 
Haha you know you've got a problematic relationship with Truth when Fox News is like ehhhh so you 
encourage your viewers to go to OANN. Massive voter fraud, severely punishable crimes ... CD l 
i 
I'm not a big fan of OANN -they have some good people here and there but a number of cranks. Maybe 
they will get their shit together with more money but idk. They are pretty low budget rn 
The newsmax front page is surprisingly news like, They have some truly Stephen Colbert but not kidding 
type anchors, but for an organization that gained prevalence by pedaling conspiracy theories they're not 
bad 
PM000123  To: 
I just got done with work, packing for VA. Speaking of VA, Aden Amanda Chase: "we know you cheated 
to win and we'll never accept these results ... president trump should declare martial law as 
recommended by General Flynn" 
I'm so fucking done with the Republican Party. A sitting state senator actively calling for civil war. Jesus. 
Mitch entertained the election fraud fantasy too long, now the base believes it 
Your outrage is consistently selective. Last week, a democrat state rep called for violence against trump 
supporters. State reps and senators say nutty stuff -the number of times they say insane shit is difficult 
to comprehend. 
Yeah that's trash too 
However civil war is worse 
I'm not cherry picking She called for martial law for a re-vote. Pretty terrible to say but not the same as civil war. Again, she is 
largely irrelevant. She pops up every now and again by saying crazy crap. 
You're cherry picking so you can feel more justified in your dislike for the party. 
You're pulling a state senator 
The main line of the Republican Party has been to actively doubt the outcome of this election, and the 
leader of the party is asserting massive fraud without evidence 
Martial Law is civil war 
Same thing 
And yeah man this alternative reality thing is just too far 
Declaring martial law would lead to a large scale civil war 
If he was actually able to pull it off, which he wouldn't be It's pickiest of cherry picking 
It's not the same -but it's not really the point 
PM000124  To: 
Serious people are not advocating for that 
How is a state senator not serious? 
Fringe and damaged folks are doing that 
Elected officials man 
Because state senators and reps say crazy shit all the time 
There are communist states reps and people who want to literally abolish prisons and police 
I don't say that they accurately reflect their party 
My sympathy is limited for the people who systematically removed protections against voter fraud. They 
made their bed -now they don't like lying in it. 
Guardrails as in the voter extensions in PA? Eh, not really. Signature verification stuff in GA and PA was 
done, and ballots were cured when possible. Solid B effort from those guys. 
And that isn't what your party is saying. Your party is saying there was massive, nation wide voter fraud 
that changed the outcome of the election 
Click to Download 
IMG_4384.jpeg 
378KB Do you acknowledge that guardrails to fraud were removed? 
The ballot rejection rate plummeted while mail in ballots (known for higher failure rates) surged. 
Trump Won the electoral college, massive voter fraud that made the results invalid. Trump is not being 
ambiguous about this. 
If this election had been closer I do think Trump would actively have tried something. Without evidence, 
the leader of the party is claiming in no uncertain terms that this election is fraudulent 
PM000125  To: 
I haven't watched the full thing yet, just read the headline 
Disgrace seems like a contrasting message with McConnell though, I thought this was the compromise 
bill that everyone could claim victory on 
Gonna watch it now 
He starts out by calling the election a theft ... Using the virus as a pretext, fraud, yada yada zero 
evidence yada yada ... not a good start. We won by a landslide we won it big ... Jesus 
Skipped ahead, he's still on it. Lost three major states but still won ... amazing how the concept of 
addition works 
Wait so the Republicans won a bunch of down ballot races, and that's evidence of fraud? 
He hits on foreign aid ... okay it's a trillion dollar bill and 0.2% of it is foreign aid ... 
Wasteful spending but not enough relief. Okay. 
Absurd last line: "or else the next administration will have to deliver a Covid relief package and maybe 
that administration ... will be me ... " lol bruh 
Okay ... so he wants a bigger bailout. But isn't that what the democrats wanted to start with and the 
Republicans bid them down? 
Also pardoning war criminals ... haha what the fuck OJ CD 
Nice! On stimulus -did you like the speech? 
No -Democrats wanted a bunch of money on bailouts of states and other priorities including voter stuff. 
We want more direct payment to Americans. Democrats floated a few alternative amounts. I think we are 
floating the highest number -$2,000. 
The foreign aid is pretty bad, dude. That's a lot of cheddar for countries that ain't this one. It would 
certainly be ideal to cut that stuff out of the bill and bump up the direct aid. 
I'm not as familiar with the pardons 
PM000126  To: 
GOP Rep. Gohmert Says Violence Is Only Recourse After 
Election Lawsuit Dismissal 
forbes.com 
Lamest. Coup attempt. Ever. 
Haha the lawsuit was a coup attempt based on .... nothing 
Not surprised, not even disappointed ... just very whelmed OJ CD 
Jan 2, 2021, 10:01 PM 
"Basically, in effect, the ruling would be you've got to go to the streets and be as violent as Antifa and 
BLM 
That's the quote 
Bad -not a coup 
Mitch has got to be face palming down hard right now at the idiots in his party 
Also: Gohmert denied that he advocated violence in a 
statement 
released Saturday, instead claiming he has "long advocated for following the teaching and example of 
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. of peaceful protest." He added, "Violence is not the answer. The appropriate 
answer is courts and self-governing bodies resolving disputes as intended." 
That headline is bullshit 
The appropriate answer is shutting the fuck up and respecting the outcome of the election 
PM000127  To: 
But if he wants to peacefully protest hos dangerous, delusional message, by all means. Trump and his 
goons are trying to lose the Senate OJ CD 
I'm glad we are forcing a debate -but I think the outcome is pretty clear. 
Forcing a debate with who? They're just playing to a base that believes a lie ... that's not a debate 
There's the people that believe a falsehood, and then there's everyone else. It's not debatable really ... 
it's also pretty unAmerican to try to circumvent election results 
And override states rights ... principle has no place here anymore apparently 
Sorry I'm just frustrated this is still a thing. I doubt Trump's tweets will cost the Republicans the senate ... 
but it is playing with fire 
I disagree and I'm not an idiot -I want the irregularities and violations of the law discussed. It will be 
certified but those things need to be exposed and debated. 
You're not an idiot, because you don't believe this stuff Dude, this happened in 04 against Bush -it should be debated. The irregularities should be fixed before 
the next election. 
And these lawsuits are "expose potential misconduct and debate how to fix them" they're "change the 
outcome of the election by invalidating it without evidence" 
What stuff don't I believe in? 
Widespread conspiracy to commit election fraud, various crackpot conspiracies being churned out at a 
cyclic rate etc. 
Huh, Cast illegally by people who weren't registered to vote? 
Or the illegal immigrant thing? Yeah -I don't agree with Sydney Powell or Lin Wood. I do think that a shit load of votes were cast 
illegally. 
That has to never happen again. It is cheating and illegal in my opinion. I don't know if that can be fixed 
at this point but it has to be stopped. 
PM000128  OJ CD 
No -absentee ballots being sent in late, not having addresses, and not having signatures confirmed. 
"Human drop boxes" in Wisconsin and other major issues -illegal under state law but still was allowed to 
occur. 
Sometimes non registered voters but idk if that is a major issue 
"those other things are big deals and should result in certification being withheld at least for a time and 
fully debated. 
But there's been a ton of investigation and very little evidence 
And irregularities aren't necessari ly fraud 
So the claims of widespread fraud ... no bueno 
The Wisconsin lawyer saying his own vote should be thrown out etc.? That's not true -there is absolutely proof of all the things I listed 
They don't want to toss the ballots 
That's the issue -there is no consensus on solution 
I saw that -idk what he was referring to. Not all absentees should be tossed but thousands -tens of 
thousands were illegally processed 
Shouldn't we be making it easier to vote? 
Fewer restrictions, paperwork, deadlines etc? 
Some did I'm sure 
But the rules are dumb. Why doesn't every state do same day registration anyway? 
And why isn't Election Day a federal holiday You may not violate the law 
There are clear rules 
They broke them 
PM000129  OJ CD 
Jan 3, 2021, 12:os AM 
That's an academic question with complex answers -some we will agree on and some we won't. The 
important thing is that the existing law was not followed 
Trying to overturn the outcome of an election, naming electors for the opposite party, suing other states 
for how they run their elections, talk of martial law, and spreading misinformation without evidence ... 
Oh and don't forget the alternative electors scheme. 
It's undemocratic. There's just no depths these people won't stoop to, you're probably gonna have to 
jump clear and let em go down with the ship. Digging a cogent argument out of that morass of 
misconduct and lies won't really help it 
Cheating in elections and violating the rules is undemocratic. We deserve changes to the system to 
prevent it from ever happening like this again. The only way that might happen is that we use this 
platform to explain and debate the problem. Countless folks say that there was nothing wrong in this 
election. That is untrue and does a disservice to a great many people who feel cheated. 
Patrick this election was not fraudulent. Acting as if it is based upon no evidence is immoral 
Lipstick on a pig man. Any election can be nit picked. But the amount of deliberate misinformation and 
lies in an attempt to discredit the outcome is A, intellectually dishonest, and B, malicious. 
The guys waging lawsuits aren't trying to spark a thoughtfu l debate. They're trying to set trust in 
institutions on fire to political gain. And failing by the way 
Also the people who feel cheated can get fucked, the electoral college doesn't care about feelings. The 
right is all about fuck your feelings until it's them doing the whining 
Seriously, FEEL is retarded. There's no evidence the election is fraudulent, and yet that's what these 
fuckers keep saying. You're just redefining their argument to make it seem more reasonable but we can 
just go look at the direct quotes to see they're not. ... search your feelings, you know it to be true 
There should be mistrust of institutions that broke the rules and violated the law. 
You can keep repeating things again and again (like "no evidence") but there is evidence and everything 
I have said to is based on facts. Not feelings. If you fuck with the election rules you will reap what you 
sow. 
I am not responsible for every jackass things some knucklehead like Lin Wood says -I am saying that the 
process had a shit load of problems with it. If we don't raise some kind of hell the Dems will do it again. 
PM000130  Patrick there is NO EVIDENCE that any of these states election results are fraudulent 
Zero 
None 
Nothing 
I'm not talking about feelings -you do that more than me. I have mentioned the facts of illegitimate 
votes were cast 
Are human drop boxes legal in WI? Is voiding signature verification in PA legal? 
Those illigitmate votes don't change the outcome. In any of those states. So why are republicans trying 
to overturn the outcome 
Alternative electors ... very cool and very legal 
You have no clue. 
Aka. No evidence 
Suspicion? Maybe sure 
Evidence? ... nothing You don't know that and no one knows that -we don't know the extent of the problem in most of these 
cases -sometimes we do but in many places we have no clue. 
Like PA -we don't know the extent. We know signature verification didn't happen and a number of other 
issues occurred 
Read 
Did Joe Exotic have a point? Maybe, but he didn't have evidence 
PM000131  To: 
Yeah so you guys have suspicion based on suspicion, and no hard evidence of anything that would 
change the outcome 
And yet ... legal challenges are launched, and promptly laughed out of court o CD 
And you should know that 
We know these things happened -in most cases we don't know how many ballots it effected 
the election wasn't fraudulent, and you've got rampant misinformation on the right saying it was 
You have no evidence. It's been two months 
Laws were broken? 
Sure 
In a nation of 300 million yes an election will have misconduct 
No kidding 
Every election ever The laws were broken and you won't acknowledge that 
We do have evidence 
You are being willfully ignorant 
-That's fraud 
Did it effect thousands of votes in swing states? 
PM000132  To: 
The idea that anecdotal evidence shouldEictually overturn the outcome is laughable 
And no OJ CD 
Signature verification in PA and human drop boxes in WI didn't effect thousands of votes? 
I've seen the arguments on these lawsuits and the numbers are just made up 
Fifty thousand in Nevada or some shit, and when asked about it they just kinda shrugged it off 
Every court in the country has been like ... yeah no 
You're trying to find a way to make your batshit lawsuits sound reasonable 
This election was not fraudulent 
Period full stop 
And while a thoughtful discussion of ways to improve the system is always welcome 
That's not what the republicans are doing and we both know it 
And in the absence of evidence, they are making extraordinary claims of criminal widespread fraud 
And trying to overturn the results of the election 
Based on ... speculation and willful delusion 
Can you explain how your concerns, namely examples of people breaking the law, lead to asking to 
overturning the outcome of the election? 
Haha -ok. You're ping pinging around -I am asking targeted questions 
You are avoiding my questions because either you don't know or you know it affected thousands of 
votes. 
You are an arsonist in a field of straw men. 
You can say there is nothing wrong -but I do not agree and I have a good amount of company. I don't 
agree with everything that is being said and done but your unwillingness to acknowledge systematic 
failings is why I think we need to debate the issue in congress. 
PM000133  To 
Patrick this election was not fraudulent 
And it's not straw men 
It's the president and his legal team, and sitting US Senators 
The outcome of this election is not in doubt. The attempts to overturn it are a disgrace 
And meanwhile you're sitting in the cheap seats trying to make it sound reasonable 
An attempt to steal a landslide win. Can't let it happen! 
.... is therefore both illegal and invalid, and that would include the two current Senatorial Elections. In 
Wisconsin, Voters not asking for applications invalidates the Election. All of this without even discussing 
the millions of fraudulent votes that were cast or altered! 
Massive amounts of evidence will be presented on the 6th. We won, BIG! 
We now have far more votes than needed to flip Georgia in the President ial race. Massive VOTER FRAUD 
took place. Thank you to the Georgia Legislature for today's revealing meeting! OJ CD 
Certification should be withheld in the initial vote and the congress should debate. I can count votes as 
well as the next guy -it will still likely pass but this issue deserves the platform it will receive. 
If I'm in the cheap seats -where are you? 
I'm just reading Twitter waiting far the crazy man to leave 
The United States had more votes than it had people voting, by a lot. This travesty cannot be allowed to 
stand. It was a Rigged Election, one not even fit for third world countries! 
I'm sick of having this fuckin buffoon get up in front of the world and say "This rigged election, one not 
even fit for third world countries" 
Why are you still defending this asshole? "Steal a landslide win! Stop the steal! We won big!" again, with 
zero evidence 
Jan 3, 2021, 2:12 PM 
PM000134  Click to Download 
IMG_ 4644.jpeg 
508KB 
No just saw the headline pop, driving back home Jan 3, 2021, 2:12 PM 
Look -I am asked to pick between two sides. 
One is overtly lying about violating election law and all but promising to do it again. They pose a 
considerable and consistent threat to the integrity and confidence in our elections in the future -they 
refuse to acknowledge they did something wrong. 
The other side acknowledges that there was cheating but also tilts at windmills on occasion and 
exaggerates the extent of the problem. 
I think I am being reasonable -I want a full hearing of this issue and I want the people to get informed 
and get mad -because there was cheating. Once they are mad -state leaders can clamp down and fix 
the problems. Clearly, based on what you have said you don't care and would make the problem worse. 
This move has clear precedent and has merit. I don't think we should get people's hopes up -the writing 
seems to be on the wall. But this merits debate. 
I listened to the recording already. It is a weird editing job of the conversation -have you listened to it 
yet? 
You aren't being asked to pick between two sides. Also the side of "overtly lying" isn't really a side, it's 
myriad state officials, many of them Republican, politely asking not to be harassed by conspiracy 
theorists 
Also. There was not cheating. There is no evidence of large scale fraud, certainly nothing atypical of 
national elections. 
"Sen. Mitt Romney (R-Utah) 
called the protests "egregious": "The congressional power to reject electors is reserved for the most 
extreme and unusual circumstances. These are far from it." 
PM000135  Mitch and the responsible, sane republicans are being attacked by people that either believe conspiracy 
theories without evidence, or are cynically trying to capture the base at the expense of their party, the 
GA elections AND faith in democratic institutions 
This sort of attack on democacty itself is beyond the pale. A last ditch futile attempt to reverse the 
outcome of the election, which is not in doubt and is not fraudulent, is not a debate; it's a PR stunt by 
cunts. 
If you believe you have to "choose a side" and go along with something like this, it's misplaced loyalty at 
the expense of party and country. I'll probably go listen to the Trump tape now. Orange man bad Patrick, 
wouldn't be surprised if this is actually criminal DI CD 
Dude -I have listed over the past months multiple instances of laws being violated in cities and states. 
That constitutes cheating. Stop saying there is no evidence of it -there is. I'm not asking for harassment 
of officials. I am asking for the laws to be endorsed. They certainly were not enforced in PA and were 
violated in WI. There have been lesser problems in other states. This affected tens of thousands of 
votes. Also, a surge of mail in ballots should have resulted in a spike in rejected ballots. Instead, the 
rejection rate plummeted this year. That makes absolutely no sense based on trends from every year 
preceding this one and primary results this year that had massive spikes in rejected ballots. Don't piss 
on my leg and tell me it's raining. There were major issues with the election. That should be debated. 
Fucking around with election laws screws confidence in democratic institutions. Your absolute lock step 
devotion to media talking points does not reflect reality. 
Objecting to certification happened in 04 and Dems tried it in 16 -this isn't the end of the world. It will 
hopefully result in notable election law changes. 
Jan 3, 2021, 4:44 PM 
Multiple instances of laws being violated is anecdotal evidence and does not justify the actions being 
taken 
You could do the same thing to any election that's occurred in the past century. With the exception of 
1960, they'd be groundless 
What was policy? Fraud? It's not anecdotal, , 
It was a policy 
PM000136  To: 
I'm sure there'll be investigations and lawsuits to establish if it's warranted 
OH 
Groundless and without standing, according to pretty much every court 
And yet 
How does that justify this petty attempted coup? 
It's an attempt to attack the legitimacy of the election and overturn it if possible 
The election was legitimate 
And tossing the ballots was absurd 
So ... yeah, shitty coup 
The arguments I've read for them 
Are absurd 
The Wisconsin lawyer in particular OJ CD 
Violating the law 
In Pa and WI in particular 
No -rejection of the ballots was shot down 
It's not a coup 
They broke the law 
Courts didn't want to toss ballots 
If they are illegally cast -should they be tossed? 
There are several more official lawyers 
One of which I am more familiar with 
PM000137  To: 
The ballots being classified as "illegal" are not always actually illegal. If you can identify specific ballots 
cast improperly according to the laws at the time of the election than sure 
Saying this election is invalid is dishonest OJ CD 
Please answer that question though 
Should they be tossed if they are illegally cast • 
So all human drop box ballot in WI should be tossed and every absentee ballot without an address and 
matching signature in PA? 
Haha if you let people cure their ballots sure 
If you try to disqualify things on suspicion, 
Haha oh fuck off you really have drank the cool aid 
Seriously? 
You'd disqualify votes on suspicion 
First 
That would not change the outcome That's not the law 
They don't have a right to cure them in PA and WI 
That is the law 
Curing is sometimes allowed 
Not always though 
Especially so after the fact 
PM000138  To: 
That would not change the outcome 
Second 
Disqualifying ballots on suspicion is not legal 
Third 
Fuck off for trying to cheat 
If your ballot was not counted because they forgot to signature match and then they didn't let you cure 
it 
That's grounds for revolution 
That's stealing the election Dl CD 
How many ballots would it effect? 
It's not suspicion 
It's confined -in some cases by the people that did it and thought they were allowed to 
And this limp dick fantasy coup shit has got to stop 
So 
On suspicion, you would invalidate 10s of thousands of votes 
And you'd call that legal? 
I'd shoot you for doing that Haha .... dude, this would effect tens of thousands of votes 
Not suspicion - I actually haven't even said I'd toss them 
PM000139  To: 
Jesus fucking Christ that's actually the play? 
You're not a lawyer 
And the lawyers that tried this 
Got laughed out of court 
Again. Shitty half hearted coup 
It's over. 
If you want to do it better next time sure 
And even with PA and Wisconsin reversed in a stunning refutation of American values ... the outcome 
doesn't change 
Since when did democracy take a back seat to loyalty to one guy 
An actually attempt to manipulate election results by tossing tens of thousands of ballots without 
recourse is grounds for execution in my book, yeah 
This is the single main pillar of our government 
Again, unjustified, unwarranted, reckless, no actual evidence of fraud 
And this crap could have been pulled for any election 
How many court cases have to be laughed out of court before you stop trying to use the law as a 
justification The law would require it 
But all I'm asking for is to acknowledge the failures 
Also -shoot me for it. Fuck off 
You have zero clue about any election law in any statement 
Don't preach to me on this 
@NI 
PM000140  To: 
How many court cases have to be laughed out of court before you stop trying to use the law as a 
justification 
Because clearly actual lawyers and Supreme Court justices don't think this has merit 
Including Trump appointed ones 
So the idea that this election is not legitimate, compared to any of our past elections in the last century, 
is a dangerous fantasy 
That apparently you've bought into. Hell take all the ballots you want and toss them out, the margin isn't 
even that close, the outcome doesn't change and yet ... alternative electors, baseless claims, and people 
trying to wreck the democratic process 
Again I don't think you guys realize how close you're taking us to a no shit civil war, and in the name of 
fuckin politics no less 
Most cases we are getting nailed on standing -not the merit of the cases. Also, I obviously have issues 
with some of our legal team. Alita and Thomas both said we had standing FYA in the Texas case -so it's 
not like no lawyers or scholars agree with us. 
Also, you said I should be shot earlier in this exchange -so don't bitch to me about the state of 
discourse and that we are close to civil war. Again, I am explaining election laws that were violate and 
you responded -I would shoot you if you enforced the laws as written. So ... you may want to look in the 
mirror and around at people like you on why our country is in a state of disunity. 
Patrick I don't think you understand just how dangerous this sort of political gambit is 
You think this is a game, played by clever ways to spin things. By ginning up mistrust in democracy, 
you're damaging the foundations of the country. 
And if Trump and his team had their way and somehow this election got reversed it would end in 
violence. 
The laws as written- give me a ducking break, yes because without evidence reversing an election is 
somehow the legal thing to do. Contesting the outcome of a presidential election is wildly reckless. 
Which bothers you more, instances of ballots being counted improperly or the assertion that this 
election is illegitimate without evidence. If it was actually a closer election you know Trump would try to 
steal it. That is clear Read 
PM000141  To: 
This inside the beltway zero sum political bullshit has real consequences for the country. If you think 
that challenging the electoral college and risking the bedrock of the country is worth it for this, then 
you've lost touch. And by the way the majority of your party agrees with me on this. 
Paul Ryan: "to sow doubt about Joe Biden's victory strike at the foundation of our republic," and that the 
"Trump campaign had ample opportunity to challenge election results." 
Seven House Republicans 
released a statement 
on Sunday: "To take action otherwise -that is, to unconstitutionally insert Congress into the center of 
the presidential election process -would amount to stealing power from the people and the states." 
Romney: Sen. Mitt Romney (R-Utah) denounced the proposed commission as an "egregious ploy" that 
"dangerously threatens our Democratic Republic," arguing that the precedent would lead partisan 
lawmakers to "inevitably demand the same any time their candidate had lost." 
Even Graham that spineless fuck: Graham said in a statement that Cruz's proposed commission "has 
zero chance of becoming reality" and is "not effectively fighting for President Trump," 
"It's bad for the country and bad for the party. It's unrealistic, baseless" 
"further attempts to cast doubt on the legitimacy" of the election are "contrary to the clearly expressed 
will of the American people." 
Me: Overriding democracy and Trump trying convince GA to overturn its result ... this result is not in 
doubt. If you value being an American over being a Trump loyalist, stop defending this, it's indefensible. DI (D 
That final point shows that you have no idea what you are talking about. The majority of my party thinks 
that the Dems fucked with the election process and believes there was notable fraud. The polls show 
that 
Because trump has been lying his ass off and people believe him. Clearly and patently untrue 
Again 
This is not a debate. The election results are not in question You stated something that was false 
There was cheating. That is beyond debate. 
PM000142  Misconduct did not change the outcome. Patrick you need to not stand behind this 
This is wrong 
And you're trying to convince yourself that it's not 
It's unAmerican 
Fully debated by contesting the electoral college? 
Right 
this is a clear line 
1969,2004 
And both of those were largely without merit 
This is even worse Fuck off. Don't tell me where I have to stand. 
I'm not saying that this should be overturned or that this will change the outcome. I am saying that 
cheating occurred and it should be fully debated and exposed. 
That is what has happened in the past and should occur again 
Happened in 04 
Was that a clear line? 
Didn't hear a peep from you when house Dems tried it in 6 • Your lack of awareness does not = clear lines 
Objecting to state electors is the process for this 
41141:M ♦~ 
PM000143  To: 
Two rogue democrats in 04, led by an Ohio rep to challenge the Ohio results 
2. That's it. This is 151 
And it's not citing specific states, it's every swing state that didn't go red 
You keep talking about evidence and yet here we are 
January 3rd 
And nothing has changed 
1969 was the faithless elector challenge 
That was procedural 
So yeah this is unprecedented p 
Okay then bud if the evidence is there why has no court ruled in favor of it 
Again 
Extraordinary claims require evidence 
The assertion that trump won and it was stolen has no basis in evidence. 
And that is what he's selling. You're just trying to dress it up as a complaint about process. Which by the 
way is also without merit because it doesn't change the outcome, so contesting electoral college win is 
unwarranted 
Elections can always be done better. And they should be done better. And these sort of objections 
should be addressed. Making it as easy as possible to people to vote and vote securely is great. But this 
election was not fraudulent. Acting as if it is is dishonest. 0: (0 
With a much larger body of evidence pointing to abuse 
Yes .... l have listed specific examples 
You keep accepting and then denying the exist 
PM000144  To: 
" ... dismissed the effort as a stunt... but apparently some democrats only want to gripe about counts, 
recounts and recounts ... so eager to abandon their role as public servants, they have case themselves in 
the role of Michael Moore concocting wild conspiracy theories to distract the American Public" 
And John Kerry's legal team said: "our legal teams on the ground have no evidence for discrepancies 
warranting challenging the outcome of Ohio" 01 <D 
I don't think the degree of cheating likely changed the overall outcome -I do think it was egregious and 
must be prevented in the future. You are debating people that are not me in the course of this text 
exchange. I have stated my case pretty clearly and used evidence to back it up at every moment it has 
been requested. You are exhausting your little fingers arguing against others. 
So yeah this contest is without precedent in American history 
... I just went through the only two other examples in American history, see above 
Before 1877 
1969 and 2004 
Yes because before 1877 and our current way of doing things is so relevant 
In the last 150 years this is unheard of Oh my god -you don't know what your talking about 
That is modern history -and it is precedent for challenging the election 
Before that there are tons of examples 
That's not true 
Yes -beyond half of our history ... ---
PM000145  To: 
69 was the faithless elector procedural challenge 
And 04 was two people and not backed by the candidate 
In that this clause has been invoked twice yes, but never in this manner 
And by the way, both those previous instances were without merit 
It was not attempted in 16 
No challenges were levied 
No debate was had 
So here we are ... with 11 senators It is heard of 
It's not the same 
You don't understand the word "precedent" 
It has been done in a similar way -this is larger and different 
It has been attempted many more times 
Including in 16 
fifi\i&i♦~ 
You need a house and senate member to object 
Multiple house members objected 
No senate members joined 
House members regularly object 
Yes, This is more extensive and different. But it has precedent. 
PM000146  To 
Eh 2004 is the only one that's even close. And for the reasons above, it's nothing like this 
That was done as a protest vote, this is a challenge 
That was done without the backing of the candidate, this is done on behalf of the candidate with his 
explicit and outspoken support and claims of fraud 
Yes -we didn't prolifically violate the rules in 04. So very different situation. 
Yes Georgia clearly violated all the rules 
How dare those democrats 
And all the republicans complicit in his travesty in PA, and every other state where Trump doesn't like 
the results. 
But Florida is fine. Stop the count/count the votes! 
Jan 3, 2021, 10:19 PM 
I have seen some people proposing a commission as an alternative. I am intrigued by that. But this 
needs to be debated and further exposed -that is my priority. 
Jan 3, 2021, 11 :24 PM 
Yeah that makes sense, having a permanent election integrity commission to perpetually improve things. 
By the way I listened to the Trump recording in full, it's basically the GA guys being like "no this election 
is fine" and trump being like "no it's not, and you're committing a crime" 
Not permanent commission -one put together by our people with R senators on it or house members. I 
don't want bureaucrats on it. 
Your people as in Trump's people? Haha given that recording so you think that'd be productive? Dude 
believes that he won GA 
"Find the votes" lol 
How out of touch do you have to be 
I would want republicans like Hawley, Blackburn, and Cruz to do a massive and fully researched report 
documenting every verified issue with the election. 
PM000147  To: 
Given the misinformat ion they've leaned into and encouraged ... do you think it would actually be a 
proper investigation. Given how the DOJ went "nah" and then Barr got fired, is there a legitimate interest 
in fact? 
Seriously look at his Twitter and listen to that recording 
GA officials are like "nope" and he just kinda rolls with it 
They say "we're confident in our numbers" and he says "you're abetting a crime" 
Do you think that's the kind of mentality that's interested in fact? 
Click to Download 
tmp.heics 
64.2 KB 
GIPHY via #images 01 CD 
Dude -whatever 
I've listened to it 
Dude, we have gone in circles on this one. You don't think there are issues -I do. You think my side is a 
threat to democratic institutions -i think your side is a threat to democratic institutions. 
I think the issues that are there don't warrant the response to try to flip the outcome, and the conspiracy 
theories 
I know your side is a threat to the country, and you think that normal election issues are grounds to try to 
set the whole institution on fire 
Did you listen to that recording? It's not about document ing issues for your side. 
You're crazy if you think these are normal election issues. It demonstrates your lack of knowledge about 
either this election or past elections. 
I also think that your side is a threat -but that language isn't terribly helpful...much like you saying you 
would shoot me. 
PM000148  Attempting to overturn an election is grounds for civil war, right? 
No seriously if you believe the election was stolen then that's grounds for violently resisting 
And conversely if Trump tries to remain in power and the election is legitimate that'salso cause for war 
Those are the stakes. If you think this election is worth challenging you're talking violence. That's why 
this sort of rhetoric is so dangerous, you guys don't realize what you're sowing 
Do you think we did? Wow -you are playing unproductive rhetoric bingo 
Y'all shouldn't have cheated 
Y'all have been committing violence and violating election law for the past 6 months 
Y'all are the arsonists 
Becaus that's a declaration . Is trump the president elect? 
Don't preach to me 
Is Trump the president elect? 
If you think Trump is being deposed illegally you have an obligation to fight 
Dude, read what I have written to you. I have made my opinions clear. 
Not the office, the position 
If you believe that trump won the election than absolutely these actions are all warranted, and then 
some 
If Biden stole the election people should be burning buildings and killing people And the office of the president elect does not exist 
Dude, text someone else if you want to debate someone who is saying other things than me. 
PM000149  To: 
It's like the pro life movement. If you think that millions of babies are being murdered a year and you 
aren't trying to stop it by any means possible, you're a coward. 
And no I'm just looking for the binary-If the election outcome is in doubt, that's a whole different 
conversation 
Millions of people are cowards apparently 
If you had children being massacred, yes violence is absolutely warranted 
If abortions are killing babies, wouldn't stopping that warrant more than polite protest? 
Same thing with the election 
No, I'm being clear eyed about the stakes 
If you think the election is being stolen, fight for it 
If not. vou're either a coward or exaaaeratina o CD 
You're an idiot 
Millions of people think that 
And you say they should commit violence? 
You're off your nut 
Do you think millions of Christians and others are lying? 
When they say that they think the unborn are living? 
In both cases you're being stupid 
There's no better word for it 
Purposely dumb 
♦ii+ 
Gi,Hbt♦ 
PM000150  To: 
Seriously if you told me that there was a coup going on and that a president was being removed 
fraudulently, of course people would fight 
I'm a patriot Patrick, you point me in the direction of the people trying to subvert democracy and steal 
the election and I'm ready to rock 
If you told me Biden was stealing the election and I believed you, that would warrant more than a polite 
protest 
That would be "okay so how do we stop this" 
Cretinous doesn't mean stupid 
Cows are wonderful creatures 
And if the cows are fighting for freedom then sign me up 
"Pignorant" sounds better QI CD 
Hold on ... .looking up synonyms for stupid 
Unintelligent 
41#8 
4-iiii:iiii♦~ 
•Wii44♦ -··@++~ 
♦+ifo:t♦~ 
Pig-ignorant 
PM000151  To 
Most men do think with their wood anyway 
... how did you know 
So you don't believe the election was stolen, you just have reservations about misconduct as it relates to 
this election and preventing it in future elections 
But if you believe this election was stolen ... bodies better start stacking 
Because that's the only rational recourse 03 (D 
Crackbrained 
4-d::H@i ♦ .. 
We all know .. 
Should bodies have been stacked in 1960? It's not the only rational answer if one believes the election 
was stolen. 
Eh probably 
♦tM+♦ 
I don't agree at all 
If I was a Republican and the election was stolen ... yeah full send 
Was that election stolen? 
Basically -yes. The Chicago machine delivered a lot of fraudulent votes. Shaped the election. Also 
Kennedy campaign allegedly worked with organized crime under the table. 
Our nation's history has a litany of examples of voter fraud and stolen elections. Shit -LBJ was both the 
victim of it and then the perpetrator of it to get his senate seat. He was in healthy company. Violence is 
not the answer to that. Very very very rarely is the answer to anything in politics. 
Wow so Kennedy stole the election from Nixon? Dude that's huge. 
Violence is always the answer, if civilized means fail, which apparently they did in 1960 
PM000152  OJ CD 
Yes -Nixon all but knew it was stolen but didn't want to drag the country through it. 
Then again it wasn't Nixon that got his head blown off ... karma's a bitch 
The Daley machine was infamous for decades 
But good for Nixon not fighting it ... I don't agree but if his motivation for letting it slide as good 
The big machines -Byrd in VA, Tammany in NY, and the old regulars in Louisiana: all prolifically cheated. 
For decades and decades 
That's ... yeah that's cause for war 
This is a long standing feature in American politics 
If you can't take the election as valid, and you know you've been cheated, you should start killing people 
The good fight 
Is usually worth fighting That's a nutty way of handling things that would have resulted in decades of civil strife 
Especially egregious fraud was confronted but yeah -this happened all the fucking time 
Not grounds for war -Jesus 
Prosecution and investigation 
Absolutely grounds for war. If one side tries to illegally sieze power, it's on like donkey Kong 
After the investigation of course ... so boring 
Though as I have said, fraud has always been hard to prove and the solution is never easy. Tossing 
ballots is never something judges want to do. So elections tend to stand no matter how fraught with 
issues. Sometimes the guy is forced to resign or you can find enough confirmed corrupt ballots in a 
close race. 
It's very tough 
PM000153  To: 
That is a disappointingly reasonable way of resolving complex issues. That said were always like one 
bullet away from mass murder. 
And in this case, the election results aren't in question, so it's less fun-er-fraught with controversy 
And the peaceful transition of power is something we should always take very seriously [ l'.I <D 
PM000154  To: 
I put my phone down for like a day I come back ... 
Click to Download 
trnp.heics 
868KB 
GIF Keyboard via #images Jan 6, 2021, 8:01 PM 
Hopefully this is the wake up call and not the beginning of the low grade civil war I've been predicting. 
Mitch McConnell was the hero today I think, taking a stand on principle in the face of a literal mob. 
Click to Download 
63167390149_1143 ... 
2.9 MB 
It may change how congressmen feel about gun control though 
Well when you've got an angry mob breaking down your door, wouldn't it be nice to have a gun? 
instagram.com (e) o CD 
Very sad day -lock em up. 
What do you mean? 
-
That's a wild video 
Very sad day though 
PM000155  To: 
Lot of anger man ... but a pretty stunning finale to Trump Season 4 
Yeah they think the election was stolen 
Yeah that's the brand ... Trump harnessed that 
Looks like it got away from him a little today. Riding a tiger 
I do hope this is the inflection point where the party starts to walk back the animosity and starts building 
a defensive, more moderate position 
With the 2022 senate races not looking good, if the Trump style doubles down it may mean a few more 
years in the wilderness OJ CD 
I can't believe our people did that -that's Antifa shit 
There is a lot of pent up anger on our side 
A lot of other stuff too 
PM000156  To: 
Jan 7, 2021, 7:55 PM 
Have you had the chance to listen to Ben Shapiro's show today? 
Jan 7, 2021, 9:46 PM 
Pretty cogent and unflinching . One that stuck with me was "probably the worst thing to happen to 
America since 9/11" 
McConnell really did well, he was really clear eyed about this. 
Yes, but in terms of the fallout, the shock to the system, loss of reputation. It's definitely the one of the 
lowest points in our political history 
Like senators caning each other o CD 
No -any good? 
Seems a little dramatic to me 
3,000 folks died on 9/11 
Maybe ... this thing lingers for a while but the guy always bounces back. 
I think a lot of stuff was worse -maybe this was the most dramatic single occasion . Very dramatic and 
emotionally powerful imagery 
He goes on to say that now it'll be used to paint all republicans ... I don't know I think it might be the tool 
for republicans to define themselves in opposition 
By "they guy" do you mean McConnell or Trump? It's a bad moment 
Very very sad it came to this 
4;;:;,.;9 
I think it depends on how the next few years go 
PM000157  To: DI CD 
... he incited an insurrection 
I don't think that's totally fair -he clearly did not mean for it to happen. Also, it was a riot -it wasn't a 
cogent or sustained insurrection. 
Cogent or sustained no ... but it was a political riot in the capital to disrupt a vote 
I dunno man ... he basically cocked the gun and pointed it 
And then "we love you, go home in peace" is a mildly mixed message 
It was blind rage 
That shits dangerous, and it's what trump has been fueling 
With all these election fraud, at this point let's call a spade a spade, lies 
He got his base amped up, and then they went super saiyan I don't even think it was meant to disrupt anything 
I think it was blind rage 
Just meant to mess with things 
ldk dude .... a lot went into this 
Not saying that he had nothing to do with it -but this pressure has been palpably building for a year 
Maybe the rhetoric could have been better but this is bigger than that 
True ... it's really really dangerous. We are very close to a civil war. Though less so than I thought, a lot of 
republicans were immediate ly fighting back on this 
Trump's probably the most dangerous man in the country in stoking that 
We are not close to civil war 
We had a riot -after literally a summer of riots 
PM000158  To: 
Not like battlefields, but low grade militias fighting it out, yeah 
More Lebanon or Colombia than, say, Syria 
In light of recent events never is a strong word 
But yeah I think firefights aren't unlikely 
MFAC vs. proud boys 
NFAC 
Not fucking around coalition 01 CD 
- They have weak central governments 
Never would happen here 
Rioting back and forth 
But not an exchange of gun fire 
More lead pipes at worse 
-CMl#ii 
Do this way way more 
There have been maybe two right wing riots at this point 
Not an excuse though 
Anyone who riots should be jailed 
PM000159  To: 
... Patrick BLM was 14 million people, it's a bit hard to generalize 
14 million and growing 
that's how many were out protesting/rioting this summer 
14 million. You can't generalize 
Okay now take that standard 
And look at Trump. You see how that works? 
Inciting violence is bad 
After he caused it 
Do you think he'll try to run again in 2024? OJ CD 
• MAGA is larger 
Cant generalize 
Yes I can -the leaders of that movement supported rioting and violence e 
Yes -he condemned it twice now. In no uncertain terms 
They support and condone opting after it happens 
He didn't tell them to do it 
•i:\6·¥1• 
It was wrong 
He condemned it 
PM000160  To: 
Him actively trying to undermine democracy? 
I don't think he deserves any more chances 
He's unrepentant too 
I thought he was dangerous and he's proven me right beyond what I thought was possible 
He is, by the way. o CD 
Did you see his speech today? 
He is not an active threat to democracy 
Just not true 
Did you see the speech? 
Also -you didn't think he should have a chance to begin with 
Dude -he's a threat to your vision of the world. That's why you don't like him and haven't like him for a 
long time 
And no I'm kindof tuning him out now. In a few days he'll be gone, and this nightmare he's brought on 
the country might start to end 
Okay did he concede the election today? 
Did he acknowledge the vote was legitimate? 
If either of those is "yes" then I'll say okay he meets the minimum standards for public office 
"He brought on the country" -keep telling yourself that. 
He said a new admin will be inaugurated on the 20th and called for the arrest of the rioters. 
(Something Biden never did with Antifa btw) 
Okay that's a half step from a man that caused all this in the first place 
PM000161  To: 
Antifa didn't go to Biden rally and then attack the capital with Biden flags did they Patrick 
It is entirely his instigation 
He's gone from bad to sad to monstrous, and you still support this man, who's making fucking Nixon 
look stable 
Laid seige to the White House haha 
From the outside 
I'm amazed you can find something defensible in this 01 CD 
Dude -whatever. This isn't all him. 
cIt1es, 
Yes -we have better security 
And held the line 
I'm amazed that you can find no fault in anyone other than the president 
It's not honorable to defend his actions 
I can find fault with plenty of people. It's the presidents responsibility 
Oh I'm more in the "people need to start dying" side of the high horse now 
Jesus fucking Christ Is it breezy on your high horse, saint t 
Don't tell me what is honorable. 
I have said the rioters were wrong 
Something I had to torture out of you on Antifa 
Which you minimized for a long time 
PM000162  To: 
If you compare Antifa to Trump supporters 
Aren't you kindof doing the Dems work for them? 
Who the fuck thinks Antifa is Joe Biden's militia? 
If it's an argument, it's a dumb one 
If it's your sincere belief that this is comparable 
You've lost your mind 
And if Joe Biden did this I'd say he should be prosecuted 
No shit 
Monstrous 
But Trump did it 
I saw his statements day of 
I saw his speech before 
I'm not an idiot 
He incited violence he's 
Yes Q CD 
I am comparing months of rioting to people who rioted yesterday 
I am comparing specific right wing extremists to left wing extremists 
Not all Trump supporters 
The president didn't do this. He didn't want it to happen and condemned it 
Did he call for violence? 
Did he call for a riot? 
PM000163  To: DI CD 
One hundred percent 
♦WM 
What did he say? 
Okay I'm done -Dude, in the course of our past two conversations you said I should 1.) be shot and 2.)that I was 
dishonorable. Don't pretend I am being the nutty or simplistic one. I watch what he says and am also, to 
the best of my knowledge, not an idiot. 
I frankly don't like that my opinions are apparently so offensive to you. I'm not unsophisticated when it 
comes to these subjects -and I think I generally come from a good faith conservative perspective. We 
can avoid personalities (ie Trump) going forward but I'm not being nutty here, man. 
1. Actively undermining democracy and spreading lies about election fraud for his own gain. 
2. Trying to use unconstitutional means to overturn an election, including federal pressure to interfere 
with multiple state elections. 
3. Inciting a mob to violence and storm the capital. 
These aren't political views, these are crimes against the country. You actively justify and condone 
Trump's actions. You aren't stupid, which means this is a choice. 
That isn't being a good conservative. That's being loyal to a man over the constitution. A cop just died of 
his injuries. 
PM000164  To o CD 
I saw about the police officer -very sad and tragic. The person who did it should get the death penalty 
like all cop killers. 
On your other points -As much as I enjoy being lectured on a movement I have been part of for the 
better part of a decade -I dare say you might be missing a few points. 
1.)Trying to narrow a man to the last two months is reductive to say the least. 
2.) Your analysis is frankly wrong on incitement. He did not want it, did not call for it, and condemned it. 
3.) there were problems with the election. I do not agree with everything the president has said about it 
or everyone he has listened to. I do, however, have major concerns about the process that was rammed 
through and altered at the last minute by Dems. 
4.) He was wrong on the constitutionality of the electoral college process. I think pence made the right 
call. 
5.) For the better part of 4 years, he made the country more prosperous and secure as a result of great 
policies that were highly conservative. He made critical changes to the party and to the government. He 
has had his failings -and maybe one day I will talk with you about what I think they are .... but on the 
whole I think he was a good leader who fought for the American people. 
"Today's violent assault on our Capitol, an effort to subjugate American democracy by mob rule, was 
fomented by Mr. Trump. His use of the presidency to destroy trust in our election and to poison our 
respect for fellow citizens has been enabled by pseudo political leaders whose names will live in infamy 
as profiles in cowardice ." -Jim Mattis. 
He's talking about you. Mitch McConnell is fighting against an existential threat to our democracy . Well 
my democracy. You support Trump, you cannot condone his actions and say you defend American 
democracy at the same time 
His policies and changes etc. Nixon had some great moments but Nixon was also a criminal who 
endangered the country 
I am not more loyal to a man than the constitution or the nation -that's nearly synonymous to treason. 
If I'm not stupid -what am I, in this analysis? 
Treasonous? 
Because Trump is there man 
He went full retard 
PM000165  To: OJ CD 
And if you back him, you're in that same boat 
Did you just seriously say I was treasonous? 
Patrick I think you're in denial how bad this is 
Trump is a threat to the country, more than any external actor 
More than fuckin Iran, or North Korea 
He's attacking the foundation of our country 
And if you back that, then what else would you call it 
This isn't about politics man 
It's about principle thats very disappointing. 
If you back Trump after this, it's not about how clever his tax policies are 
It's about respect for basic American values, and lack thereof 
"He was wrong on the constitutionality of the electoral process" ... and that's just okay then. That, and 
the riot, and the open lies. 
I am always up for an intellectual joust with you and a friendly back and forth. I have constant ly 
been willing to interact with other perspectives -no matter how distant from my own. I enjoy it 
considerably. 
You have unfortunately been drifting into a fairly personal variant of discourse that is unproductive and 
unappreciated. Accusing me of being dishonorable and certainly calling me a traitor is over the line. I 
recommend we dial this back a bit. Getting a little too heated and personal. 
PM000166  To: OJ CD 
Jan 12, 2021, 11:32 PM 
I've been incredibly busy, been out of the loop. Yeah man ... you being a Trumpist is pretty dire. It has to 
be exciting to feel like you're in the middle of the things and able to help further policies you care about. 
I can understand being caught up in that, and it's easy to justify the actions of people you know, and 
defend your team. 
Trump is waging an attack on the principle of democracy. Defending his actions is not just lively debate 
on policy from a foundation of shared values, it's aiding and abetting a crime against the country. 
When you decided to go into politics, is this the type of man you wanted to empower? Normally deals 
with the devil are supposed to help, but Trump has lost the House, the Senate, and the White House. 
The Senate races in 2022 dont look good either. Losing and screwing the GOP aside, is this the kind of 
man who's worth sacrificing your principles for? Trump's a "man without a country", who's "anti­
conservative and antidemocratic" to quote Mattis, Ryan, and McConnell. and if you stand behind him 
then you are too. You're looking for a worthy cause to defend against the world. This ain't it. 
I am proud of the work that has been done the past four years. No one is happy about how this is ending 
-it is tragic and deeply sad but that does not negate the great things that have been done. I am proud to 
have supported the president, though I have not always agreed with his decisions or exactly what he has 
said. On net, he has done more good than bad -and has done some exceptional things that I don't see 
any other Republican accomplishing. And I don't think he should be held responsible for something he 
did not ask for nor want -and has condemned. 
I've not been caught up in the moment -or simply enjoy some kind of limelight. That is somewhat 
patronizing. I am neither so vain nor so stupid that I would be a toady to someone who offends my 
principles. I have few incentives -I got what I personally wanted and could benefit financially and 
potentially professionally from betraying my current employer. Maybe .... if you think about it -that's not 
violating principle ... it is abiding by principle. 
I have not aided or abetted a crime against the country. That's an insane claim. 
Also: the idea that my opinions "are dire" is mind boggling to me. You have been friends with literal 
communists, socialists, and monarchists. 
I am happy to think that we just disagree. Disagreement is interesting and dynamic -but you are saying 
that approx. 80% of the Republicans have seditious opinions. That they are "without a country." 
I have a country and have been working for its government for four long and largely sleepless years. 
Your new tact is somewhat perplexing. I am not entirely certain what you are going for. 
■•1••··•1=-11t:••••1::a•,•r:111 ■1iii11t:11l~l::altr.lll•Jiit:l'il1:J-"j,."t:(etlllllt)lllfllt- ..... "1IIIJ(:lll•11t:1ir::JillU~11•1•.•Jl:IUir:li1t:111t1:Ya'!.11l••1•l:r.• 
PM000167 