1 
2 
3 
4 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE 
5 JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL, 
6 U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
7 WASHINGTON, D.C. 
8 
9 
10 
11 DEPOSITION OF: ANDREW HITT 
12 
13 
14 
15 Monday, February 28, 2022 
16 
17 
18 
19 Washington, D.C. 
20 The deposition in the above matter was held via Webex, commencing at 10:04 
21 a.m. 
22 Present: Representative Schiff. 1  1 
2 Appearances: 
3 
4 
5 For the SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE 
6 THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL: 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 STAFF ASSOCIATE 
, INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBER 
SENIOR INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
, CHIEF CLERK 
PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBER 
, OF COUNSEL TO THE VICE CHAIR 
17 For THE WITNESS: 
18 
19 STEVE BISKUPIC 
20 Biskupic & Jacobs 
21 1045 W Glen Oaks Lane 
22 Suite 106 
23 Mequon, WI 53092 2  3 
1 
2 
3 Ms.- So the time is 10:03. We're going to go on the record. This is 
4 a deposition of Andrew Hitt conducted by the House Select Committee to Investigate the 
5 January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol pursuant to House Resolution 503. At 
6 this time, I would like to ask the witness to please state his full name and spell his last 
7 name for the record. 
The Witness. Andrew Hitt, H-i-t-t. 8 
9 Ms- And, counsel, can you please state your full name and spell your 
10 last name for the record, please. 
11 Mr. Biskupic. Sure. Counsel for Mr. Hitt is Steven Biskupic from the law firm 
12 Biskupic and Jacobs. And Biskupic is spelled Bas in boy, i-s-k-u, Pas in Peter, i-c. 
13 Ms.~ Great. Thank you. My name is , and I 
14 serve as investigative counsel for the select committee. My colleague to the left, can 
15 you please introduce yourself. 
16 Mr I'm- and I am a senior investigative counsel at the 
17 committee and also the additional title of counsel to the Vice Chair Liz Cheney. 
18 Ms- And to my right is ■■■• He is a 
19 professional staff member for the select committee. And we also have some other staff 
20 members for the select committee on the line as well. This will be a staff-led deposition. 
21 If any members of the select committee join, they, of course, may choose to also ask 
22 questions. I will try to announce them as I see them join so that you're aware Mr. Hitt. 
23 Under the House deposition rules, neither committee members nor staff may discuss the 
24 substance of the testimony you provide today unless the committee approves its release. 
25 You and your attorney will have an opportunity to review the transcript.  4 
1 Before we begin, I would like to discuss a few ground rules. We will follow the 
2 House deposition rules that we have provided to you with the subpoena. There is an 
3 official reporter transcribing the record of this deposition. Please wait until each 
4 question is completed before you begin your response, and we will try to wait until your 
5 response is complete before we ask your next --our next question. And I know with 
6 virtual proceedings, it can be a little difficult. So I apologize if I ever interrupt you. 
7 won't take it --please don't take it personally, and I won't take it personally as well. 
8 There is a little bit of a delay at times. 
9 The stenographer cannot record nonverbal responses, such as shaking your head 
10 or nodding your head. So it is important that you answer each question with an audible 
11 verbal response. We ask that you please provide complete answers based on your best 
12 recollection. If my question isn't clear, and it probably won't be at times, just please ask 
13 for me to clarify. If you don't know the answer, please say so. You may only refuse to 
14 answer a question to preserve a privilege recognized by the select committee. If you 
15 refuse to answer a question based on a privilege, staff may proceed with the deposition 
16 or seek a ruling from the chairman on the objection. If the chairman overrules such an 
17 objection, you are required to answer the question. 
18 I also want to remind you that it is unlawful to deliberately provide false 
19 information to Congress. And we tell that to everyone. It's not specific to you. Since 
20 this deposition is under oath, providing false information could result in criminal penalties 
21 for perjury and/or providing false statements. Do you understand that? 
22 
23 The Witness. Yes. 
Ms.- Okay. Great. Would you please stand and raise your right 
24 hand to be sworn in. 
25 The Reporter. Sir, do you solemnly declare and affirm, under the penalty of  1 perjury, that the testimony you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and 
2 nothing but the truth? 
3 
4 The Witness. I swear. 
Ms.- Logistically, please let us know if you need any breaks, or if at 
5 any time you would like to discuss anything with your attorney. We can go off the 
6 record, mute ourselves, turn off the video, and feel free to talk to your counsel, and then 
7 we can get back in. If you ever, you know, want water or anything, just let us know. 5 
8 know that these can be really draining. Just raise your hand. Perfect. Okay. Great. 
9 The Witness. Okay. 
10 Ms. - Is there anything that you wanted --any questions you have or 
11 anything you wanted to discuss before we start? 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 The Witness. No. 
EXAMINATION 
BYMS 
Q Okay. Let's pull up exhibit 1, please. 
Mr. Hitt, can you see that clearly? 
A Yes, I can. 
Q Great. Okay. So this is exhibit 1. You understand that you are 
19 appearing pursuant to the subpoena dated January 28, 2022, which should be what 
20 you're looking at right now on your screen. Is that right? 
21 
22 
23 right? 
24 
25 A Yes, I do. 
Q And you're the Andrew Hitt listed in the subpoena in exhibit 1. Is that 
A Yes, I am. 
Q Okay. Part of the subpoena requires you to produce documents and  6 
1 information, including electronically stored information. Do you understand that? 
2 
3 A 
Q Yes. 
Can you just briefly describe the efforts that you took to comply with the 
4 January 28th subpoena? 
5 
6 
7 A Yes. So I have a couple of different email addresses that I used during my 
time kind of as chairman. So I have an , and I have an 
Mr.- Sorry, you don't have to say the full email address if you prefer to 
8 not have it on record. So you're welcome to if you want, but if you have any privacy 
9 concerns, you don't have to say the whole address. 
10 The Witness. Okay. Sounds good. Thank you. 
11 So what I did was --I first went to the time period, the relevant time period that 
12 we're talking about here, and I looked at everything in my inbox, everything in my sent, 
13 and my calendar, and then I checked also my deleted or my trash box as well. From 
14 there, then, I took specific terms, like "elector," "electors' meeting," "Jan 6," 
15 "January 6th," and did searches within the email. And then, from there, I did people 
16 searches. So, as I was doing my review and sort of refreshing myself of what happened, 
17 then I started doing searches for different names that were then generated records. 
18 For text messages, I did something similar, I --well, I went to my text messages 
19 and would kind of put in the people to go back that far. I would put the --bring up that 
20 person, and then I would scroll back to that time period and reviewed all of the texts with 
21 that person. And then I again used the search terms that I talked about and searched 
22 for any text messages that would bring up, for example, "elector" or "electors' meeting" 
23 or "electors." 
24 BY MS. 
25 Q Perfect. And thank you. And we saw I think some emails from the two  7 
1 email addresses that you mentioned. So that makes sense. As far as text messages, 
2 did you only use one cell phone number or one cell phone during the relevant time 
3 period? 
4 A So I have a work phone, but it is connected to my iMessage. So they would 
5 be the same. And I have an iPad as well, but it's connected to my iMessage. And I 
6 didn't use that phone separately for like SMS texts. In fact, I only used that phone 
7 basically for a hotspot. 
8 Q Perfect. And, as far as messaging applications, do you recall that you used 
9 any applications, such as Signal WhatsApp, Telegram, during that relevant time period? 
10 A I did not. I do have a WhatsApp account, but I don't use it --I used it on a 
11 trip I went on. So everybody who was on that trip used it. And then I do have a Signal 
12 account, but I didn't get it until about October of this year. I went on a hunting trip, and 
13 one of the guys basically only uses Signal, and so I do have that. I did look at Signal just 
14 in case to see if there was anything in there that I couldn't remember from the last couple 
15 of months based on kind of the subpoena, but there wasn't anything there. 
16 Q And what about social media? Did you use social media at all during the 
17 relevant time period? And I'm --I'll say not more like the private messages, like direct 
18 messages? 
19 A No. I have --I think the only social media I really have is Twitter. Like I 
20 said, Linked In as well. I don't usually use those for messaging. So I didn't look at 
21 those, but I would be happy to, but I don't believe there would be anything there. 
22 Q Okay. Yeah, afterwards if you could just check, you know, using the search 
23 terms you described just to see if there was anything there and, you know, Linkedln or 
24 whatever else, we would appreciate it. 
25 A Absolutely.  8 
1 Q And, as far as I know you mentioned that you had like an iPad, did you also 
2 search to see if you had any electronically stored documents, you know, on your desktop? 
3 
4 
5 
6 A 
Q 
A 
Q Yeah, I searched my computer and my iPad. 
Okay. And how about hardcopy documents? 
Yeah, I looked. I don't really save or have any hardcopy documents. 
Did you coordinate with my members of President Trump's 2020 campaign, 
7 President Trump's lawyers, anyone at the RNC, or anyone at the Wisconsin GOP in 
8 responding to the document requests in the subpoena? 
9 A The only person I talked to was Mark Jefferson. He is the executive 
10 director of the Wisconsin GOP. As chair, I was a volunteer chair, so I have another job. 
11 He kind of ran the day-to-day. So I did ask him because, at first, I only had text 
12 messages that went back one year. That was on my phone because it's set to delete 
13 after a year. So I actually asked him if he had text messages because I was going to ask 
14 him if he would produce them --help me produce them. When I was talking to him, 
15 though, we realized that I have my iPad that he --you know, I always --I use that a lot, 
16 and we decided to look at that. And I had that set to forever. So I didn't need to rely 
17 on him in order to try to get the text messages --the relevant text messages. 
18 Q Understood. And, when you were talking to Mr. Jefferson, did he ever tell 
19 you anything like "don't produce this" or "you shouldn't show the select committee that," 
20 anything along those lines? 
21 
22 A 
Q No, never. 
Okay. And, when you were talking to Mr. Jefferson, did you ever have any 
23 conversations about what you should or should not testify to the select committee 
24 concerning, you know, the 2020 election? 
25 A No.  1 
2 
3 Q 
A 
Q Okay. 
Yeah, no, we just talked about the logistics. 
Okay. So is it fair to say you've produced everything to the select 
4 committee in your possession, custody, or control that are responsive to the requests in 
5 the subpoena, understanding that you're going to check maybe some social media apps 
6 like Linkedln? 
7 A I believe so, consistent with how I went through my searches. We didn't 
8 use an outside vendor or anything. This was just me. 
9 Q Great. Thank you. Let's just go through a little bit of your background. 
10 Where do you currently live? 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A I live in Appleton, Wisconsin. 
And I've actually been there. It's a great town. 
It is. 
And how long have you lived in Wisconsin? 
Just about my whole life. I lived in Washington, D.C., in 2003 to 2004. 
16 worked for the National Institutes of Health for a year, and then came back to Wisconsin. 
17 Q And why don't you just go through a little bit your professional background. 
18 A Okay. Well, I'm a lawyer by training. Before law school, I did cancer 
19 research. And then I went to law school. Out of law school, I was the law clerk on the 
20 Wisconsin Supreme Court to Justice Annette Ziegler. Then I went to the district 9 
21 attorney's office and was a prosecutor in the Milwaukee County District Attorney's Office. 
22 From there, I went to Governor Walker's administration as his deputy legal counsel and 
23 then senior advisor and then a member of his cabinet as an assistant secretary at the 
24 Department of Health Services and the Department of Administration. From there, I 
25 went and --I went to a healthcare organization for a short time before coming to Michael  10 
1 Best, where I am both an attorney at Michael Best & Friedrich, and also a partner at 
2 Michael Best Strategies, which is the consulting arm of Michael Best. 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A And what was the name of the healthcare organization that you mentioned? 
ElderSpan Management. 
And what years were you there? 
Let's see. 
If you can recall. To the best of your recollection? 
Yeah. It would have been January of 2015 until October of 2015. 
And then did you join Michael Best in October 2015? 
Yeah. That's correct. 
And you're currently at Michael Best, you said? 
Correct. 
And when did you become the chairman of the Wisconsin Republican Party? 
I was elected in April of 2019. I served as the interim chair from March 
15 of 2019 until the election in April of 2019. 
16 
17 Party? 
18 
19 Q 
A 
Q And until when did you serve as chairman of the Wisconsin Republican 
In August of 2021. 
And I forgot to ask, as part of your practice, either on the consulting side or 
20 as a lawyer at Michael Best, do you do anything relating to election law? 
21 
22 
23 A 
Q 
A I have in the past, yes. 
Is it set at the State --like State law, election law in Wisconsin? 
Yeah, State. Primarily State law. I participated in some recounts at the 
24 State level, and things of that nature regarding elections. 
25 Q And correct me if I'm wrong, did you serve after your chairmanship as  11 
1 immediate past chairman on the executive committee of the Wisconsin Republican Party? 
2 A Yes, as --in the constitution of the Wisconsin GOP, all past --all chairs 
3 become immediate past chairs. It's very much a ceremonial role. I have not 
4 participated in any executive committee meetings since I've departed. 
5 Q And are you, to your knowledge, are you still on --considered to be a part of 
6 the executive committee even though it's a ceremonial role? 
7 
8 A 
Q Correct, I am. 
Great. Can you just give us a brief overview of your responsibilities when 
9 you were a chairman of the Wisconsin Republican Party? 
10 A Yes. So you really have three duties: Media appearances and being the 
11 public voice of the Republican Party of Wisconsin; fundraising and managing relationships 
12 with grassroots, activists, and volunteers across the State; you're obviously involved in 
13 the management of the Republican Party, you know, headquarters, but much of that is 
14 sort of delegated to the executive director, who is a full-time position. But that person, 
15 Mark Jefferson, and I talked daily, if not multiple times a day, about various things in 
16 terms of elections or politics or decisions that needed to be made at the party. 
17 Q And when you say worked with headquarters, is that the RNC? Would that 
18 be the RNC in this case? 
19 
20 
21 
22 A 
Q 
A 
Q Sorry, no. I meant the headquarters in Madison of the Wisconsin GOP. 
I see. Okay. 
As a State chair, though, you are on the Republican National Committee. 
And in the context of the 2020 election, and I'll include after election day, 
23 that period, what were some of your responsibilities as chairman to the extent they 
24 differed from what you already described? 
25 A Well, they would be pretty consistent. Obviously, you know, during the  12 
1 2020 election, then that effort in terms of what we were discussing, in terms of politics 
2 and ground --you know, the ground, the ground game, if you will, the volunteers, the 
3 staff, you're all working towards, you know, those elections and working on those 
4 elections. And then after the election, I, you know, was focused again mostly on media 
5 appearances and grassroots and talking with them and trying to --sort of trying to 
6 manage them and, you know, talk with them because they were very upset about the 
7 election. So I spent a lot of time, you know, on the phone with or meeting with folks like 
8 that and going to events. 
9 Q And when you say managed them, are you referring to like the grassroot 
10 Republican supporters and specifically in Wisconsin or you understood to be in 
11 Wisconsin? 
12 
13 A 
Q Yeah. I really only focused on Wisconsin. 
Okay. And as part of your duties as chairman of the Wisconsin Republican 
14 Party, during the 2020 election, did you have to work with the Trump campaign at all? 
15 
16 A 
Q Yes, both the Trump campaign and the Republican National Committee. 
And, if you could just give us a brief overview of how you worked with the 
17 Trump campaign, in the context of the 2020 election, specifically. 
18 A Sure. So I would preface it with saying most of the work is through the 
19 RNC. There is a regional political director, a State director, all of those people work for 
20 the RNC. So my primary points of contacts were the State director and the regional 
21 political director. From time to time, I would talk with Nick Trainer, who was on the 
22 campaign. I had, you know, a few conversations with Mike Roman, who --1 don't even 
23 know what his title was --did something with election day, operation-type stuff. And 
24 then Ryan Terrell, who was I believe our regional election day operation person for the 
25 RNC. That really is the main folks that I would have interacted with, you know, on the  13 
1 campaign. 
2 Q Great. And we'll --I have seen those names in the documents. So we'll 
3 talk a little bit more about them throughout the deposition. You had mentioned that 
4 you worked-- I think you said you worked mostly worked with the RNC and also a State 
5 director. Who was the State director that you recall working with? 
6 A Andrew Iverson. 
7 Q Okay. And, to your knowledge, did he work for the RNC or for the 
8 Wisconsin GOP? 
9 
10 A Yes. Yeah, he worked --he worked for the RNC. 
Q Okay. And the regional director, to your knowledge, did that person work 
11 for the RNC as well? 
12 
13 
14 A Yes. 
Q Okay. And was that Ryan Terrell, or someone else? 
A No, the regional political director was Clayton Henson, H-e-n-s-o-n. Ryan 
15 Terrell would have been, I think, our --I believe he is our --he was the regional election 
16 day operation individual. 
17 Q Got it. Great. Thank you. During the 2020 Presidential election, you 
18 served as a Republican Party elector. Is that right? 
19 
20 
21 
22 A Correct. 
Q Had you served as an elector in a Presidential election before? 
A I have not. 
Q Okay. How did you become a Republican Party elector for the 2020 
23 election? 
24 A I believe --we have a selection event, if you will, on October 6th, where you 
25 have to sign the documents and say these are the electors. I don't know if there is --I  14 
1 don't recall if there is like a specific process we used. You needed one person from each 
2 congressional district. Generally, the people want to and volunteer for these 
3 ceremonial type jobs. And then there is two at large. So I was told that generally the 
4 chairman is --the chairman of the party would serve as the chairman of the electors, and 
5 so, I agreed to do that. And we filled out that paperwork on October 6th. 
6 Q Do you recall who you talked to or talked with who told you that, typically, 
7 the chairman of the State party who serves as the chairman of the electors? 
8 
9 A 
Q Mark Jefferson. 
Okay. And do you know how the other Republican Party electors for 
10 Wisconsin were chosen in the 2020 election? 
11 A I believe it was just Mark and I working together and identifying people from 
12 each congressional district and the at-large. 
13 Q And do you remember any sort of criteria of how you thought of names 
14 when you were deciding who to pick as electors? 
15 A You know, it was pretty informal. You know, we picked people and talked 
16 to people who were sort of active, you know, in the party and active in the cycle. 
17 People who may have --Mark would have this knowledge of people who in the past 
18 wanted to do it but didn't get picked or weren't able to. And so it's something that you 
19 sort of tried to spread around as an opportunity. 
20 Q And I forgot to ask for Mark, Mr. Jefferson, to the best of your knowledge, 
21 did he have any role within the Trump campaign in the 2020 election, or simply he 
22 worked for the Wisconsin GOP? 
23 
24 
25 A 
Q 
A He worked for the Wisconsin GOP. 
Okay. Are you familiar with a news publication called The Atlantic? 
Yes.  15 
1 Q Okay. So I'll represent to you, and we can pull up the article as well. In 
2 September 2020, The Atlantic published an article on line that suggested that the Trump 
3 campaign may test the assumption that Presidential election --electors would be chosen 
4 by the popular vote. 
5 Prior to election day, do you recall hearing anything about an idea that the Trump 
6 campaign may try to have the Republican Party electors in a given State chosen even if 
7 Trump had not won the popular vote in that state? 
8 A No. I think the first time I kind of heard of any elector discussion was 
9 around November 27th. 
10 Q Okay. And I think you produced to us that text chain. So we can get to 
11 that soon. I want to pull up really quickly, though, this article. If you can turn to 
12 exhibit 3. And we'll go to page 24. I'll represent to you it's a very long article. So I 
13 don't blame you for not having read it at the time. 
14 
15 
16 
17 A 
Q 
A 
Q The Atlantic usually is long. I've done a couple of interviews with them. 
So can you see that? I'm not sure how big it is on your screen. 
I can see it fine. 
Perfect. So there's a paragraph that starts with, "Trump may test this." It 
18 says: According to sources in the Republican Party at the State and national levels, the 
19 Trump campaign is discussing contingency plans to bypass election results and appoint 
20 loyal electors in battleground States where Republicans hold the legislative majority. 
21 With a justification based on claims of rampant fraud, Trump would ask State legislators 
22 to set aside the popular vote and exercise their power to choose a slate of electors 
23 directly. The longer Trump succeeds in keeping the vote count in doubt, the more 
24 pressure legislators will feel to act before the safe-harbor deadline expires. 
25 Do you recall hearing any discussions within the Wisconsin Republican Party or  16 
1 elsewhere that the Trump campaign may seek to have the Republican Party electors 
2 appointed through the legislator --legislature even if President Trump lost the popular 
3 vote in that State? 
4 A I don't recall. And you're specifically asking about that time period around 
5 this article? 
6 
7 Q 
A That's right. It would have been like pre-election time period. 
I don't. I don't recall. If it did come up, it wasn't --it wasn't a major topic 
8 that I dealt with. 
9 Q Okay. We'll go quickly to page 27. It's a little bit later on. This is the last 
10 portion of this article. I'll show you where it says: Rival slates of electors could hold 
11 mirror-image meetings in Harrisburg, Lansing, Tallahassee, or Phoenix, casting the same 
12 electoral votes on opposite sides. Each slate would transmit its ballots as the 
13 Constitution provides to the seat of the government of the United States, directed to the 
14 President of the Senate. The next move would belong to Vice President Mike Pence. 
15 You know, prior to election day, were you aware of the theory that rival or what 
16 I'll call alternate slates of electors could cast purported electoral votes and send those to 
17 the President of the Senate, where the decision of which slate of electors to count would 
18 be up to Vice President Pence in his role as President of the Senate? 
19 A I don't recall. If I did read the article or if it was sent to me, I might have 
20 been aware of it. But like I said, it wasn't anything that I was dealing with. And it was 
21 really after the election where I started to learn of this type of thing and the Hawaii case, 
22 in particular. 
23 Q Okay. And we'll get to the Hawaii case and your recollections after election 
24 day in this deposition. If I refer to the Republican Party electors who, you know, passed 
25 purported votes in states where President Trump had not been the certified winner of the  17 
1 popular vote as alternate slates or alternate electors, do you understand what I'm saying? 
2 
3 A 
Q Yes, I do. 
Okay. Great. So I might use that phrase a few times today. I just want 
4 to make sure that you understand what I'm saying, and I'm not confusing us. 
5 
6 A 
Q Sure. That sounds fine to me. 
So is it safe to say, prior to election day, you don't recall any plans or 
7 discussions to convene alternate electors in States that President Trump would lose the 
8 popular vote to cast electoral votes for President Trump and by Vice President Pence? 
9 A I don't recall any. If I was made aware, it wouldn't have been a major thing 
10 that I was dealing with or working on. 
11 Q Okay. And, prior to election day, do you recall any discussions about the 
12 role of the Vice President Pence as President of the Senate in the counting of electoral 
13 votes? 
14 
15 
16 A 
Q No, I don't believe so. 
You can take that down. Okay. Great. 
So you've referenced it a few times. When do you first recall hearing discussions 
17 at least about a potential meeting of the Republican Party electors to cast electoral votes 
18 for President Trump and Vice President Pence on December 14th? 
19 A So I believe it was November 27th. There could have been some instance 
20 before. I'm not exactly sure when I became aware of like the Hawaii case. It could 
21 have been shortly before that from RPW outside counsel Joe Olson. But it was 
22 November 27th when I got that phone call from Clayton Henson, who was the regional 
23 political director for the RNC, and he was asking who --if they could have the Wisconsin 
24 slate of electors. 
25 Q And you mentioned the RPW, Joe Olson. Just so the record is clear, is RPW  1 the Republican Party of Wisconsin? 
2 
3 A 
Q Yes. Sorry. 
Oh, no, not a problem. So tell us a little bit more about this Henson call, 
4 Mr. Henson when he called you. What, specifically, was he asking for? 18 
5 A Yes, so my recollection of the call is, basically, from the text message where 
6 that memorializes it from me to Mark Jefferson. But he asked for our slate of electors. 
7 I don't recall doing this at the time, but I recall, you know, my text messages. I, 
8 specifically, questioned him on why they needed it, and that the Trump campaign wasn't 
9 going to try to make us say that we were the only proper electors. And he said: I don't 
10 think so. 
11 And I relayed that to Mark Jefferson. Mark and I decided we would send our 
12 October 6th document, giving the slate of electors, so that we can --we didn't send email 
13 addresses, phone numbers of our electors. 
14 Q And, when you spoke with Mr. Henson, do you recall where he said 
15 this --like why he needed the information, where it was coming from, this request? 
16 
17 A 
Q I do not. 
And, to the best of your recollection, at that time, was it already --had it 
18 been decided that the Republican Party electors would meet in December 14th, or was it 
19 still just a possibility? 
20 A No, certainly, it still was a possibility. That was I believe --you know, it 
21 really wasn't until after November 27th, I started to have --we started to, you know, have 
22 our suspicions that we would be asked to do that, you know, because they were asking 
23 for the electors. But it was, it was certainly after that where that advice came from Joel 
24 Olson. 
25 Q So let's pull up. We can pull the text message, so we're all on the same  1 page. Let's go to exhibit 4. And this is --as you can see that. I believe this is a text 
2 message that you were referring to from November 27th with Mark, who I believe was 
3 Mark Jefferson. Is that right? 
Correct. 
And is this the text messages that you were thinking of? 
Yes. 19 
4 
5 
6 
7 A 
Q 
A 
Q Okay. So I believe --how did --it looks like Mark reached out to you asking: 
8 What do you think the campaign wants to --I think that's a typo --list of electors for? I'll 
9 send it to them about an half hour when I'm back on my computer. 
10 Do you know how Mr. Jefferson became aware of this request for the list of 
11 electors. 
12 A I believe Clayton called him too. It was a frequent, a frequent approach, if 
13 you will, that if somebody called me and didn't get me, they would call Mark after me. 
14 You know, I think, in some regards, it was out of respect, but a realization that I was just a 
15 volunteer chair. And so it was very typical for double phone calls to come in. 
16 Q Okay. And so you say: I do know Clayton just called me. Did he call you 
17 too? I told him outright that I hope they are not planning on asking us to do anything 
18 like try and say we are the only proper electors. He said he didn't think so. 
19 What do you recall about what you told Mr. Clayton, or Mr. Henson excuse me? 
20 A Well, I don't recall --I don't really recall much aside from this --the text 
21 message that memorializes it. But when I had concerns throughout, I would also --I 
22 would often voice them to Mr. Henson. So it was not atypical for me to voice concern, 
23 or for me to push back to him when, for example, President Trump was saying things 
24 about Republicans or Republicans in Wisconsin that I didn't agree with. 
25 Q And, with respect to your specific concern, as described here, you say you  20 
1 hope they're not planning on asking us to do anything like try and say we are the only 
2 proper electors. What specifically was your concern? 
3 A I did not want them to ask us or demand to us that we would assert that we 
4 were the proper electors based on, you know, the President's belief that there was 
5 widespread fraud. 
6 Q And then why, just to understand that a little bit better, why was that a 
7 concern for you to represent that, you know, you all, the Republican Party electors were 
8 the only proper electors, you know, at this point, in time November 27th? 
9 A Yeah, so I think, by November 27th, there was often national figures on 
10 television. And they were saying things that were not accurate about what occurred in 
11 Wisconsin, and it gave me significant concern. They would talk about how the absentee 
12 ballot requirements that were being contested only occurred in Dane County, which is 
13 where Madison is, and Milwaukee County. That simply wasn't true. They said the 
14 same thing, I believe, for indefinite confinement. And then one of the most troubling 
15 for me is when they would talk about the Milwaukee votes and the Milwaukee absentee 
16 ballots that came in in the early morning hours, you know, that Wednesday. And how 
17 they would talk about it was inaccurate. We knew exactly how many absentee ballots 
18 there were. And through our data program, I could have predicted for you within a 
19 couple of percentage points how those would have gone, and how those votes would 
20 have resulted, you know, the breakdown of Biden votes versus Trump votes. And it --so 
21 I was concerned because every time I turned on the TV, or nearly every time I turned on 
22 the TV, some national figure was saying something that was simply inaccurate about 
23 Wisconsin. 
24 Q And thank you for your explanation on that. When you say "national 
25 figures," were these --do you have anyone specifically in mind?  21 
1 A Yeah, I mean Rudy Giuliani, certainly. Sidney Powell was another person 
2 who was doing that. Those are the two that come to mind. But, you know, it's 
3 certainly --in the news, it wasn't just limited to them. 
4 Q Okay. And, for Mr. Giuliani, was it your understanding he was a lawyer for 
5 President Trump? 
6 A Yes, I think so. But I guess I don't know if I really knew if he was a paid 
7 lawyer or if he was just being kind a talking head on TV. 
8 Q And how about Ms. Powell, did you have any understanding as to how 
9 she --if she had any sort of relationship with the Trump campaign? 
10 A Well, it certainly seemed like she was on some sort of legal team. And I 
11 think at one point she was, and then I think she was kind of dismissed from that legal 
12 team. But it's not something that I really studied or really spent much time on. 
13 Q Understood. You have a lot --had a lot on your plate, I'm sure. Did you 
14 have any discussions with, that you can recall if Mr. Giuliani, you know, I'll say it from like 
15 the election day to, you know, January 20th, 2021? 
16 
17 
18 A 
Q 
A Yeah, I don't believe I've ever --ever in my life talked to Rudy Giuliani. 
Do you know if he ever reached out to you? 
He did not. I did get a phone call at one point from Ronna McDaniel that 
19 said Rudy Giuliani --she told me that Rudy Giuliani asked for my phone number, and he 
20 might call. But I don't believe he ever did. 
21 Q And this certainly isn't a memory test. Do you recall just about when that 
22 conversation from --with Ms. McDaniel was? 
23 A I don't know for certain. But I do know that my phone records indicate that 
24 I think around December 5th. I had a phone call from her that was around 5 or 
25 5 minutes. It could have been then. She was also at some point running for  22 
1 re-election of the RNC chair, and I was asked to be on her leadership committee team. 
2 It really ended up just being RNC members who said: Yes, I support you. 
3 But we had a few phone calls and a few discussions from time to time. So I can't 
4 say for certain because I know that there were conversations with her regarding that as 
5 well. 
6 Q And did Ms. McDaniel, did she tell you what she thought Mr. Giuliani --why 
7 he wanted to talk to you? 
8 
9 
10 
11 A 
Q 
A 
Q No, I don't believe so. I think I just presumed it was about, about elections. 
And about likely Wisconsin in particular? 
Yeah, right. 
And how about Ms. Powell, did you ever talk to her, or do you know if she 
12 ever tried to reach out to you? 
13 A I don't believe so. I never talked to her. And I don't believe she ever tried 
14 to reach out to me. I did have a couple of text messages in there from people who I 
15 think were working for her or involved with her, but I didn't return --I didn't return their 
16 text messages or calls, I don't believe. 
17 
18 Q 
A Do you recall who those text message were, who you are referring to? 
Yeah, I think one of them was either Dan or Don Brown. I don't recall his 
19 first name. And then there was a woman. I think her first name was Wendy. 
20 believe it's in my text somewhere. Her last name might have been Phillips. 
21 Q And you understood that they had some sort of connection or association 
22 with Ms. Powell? 
23 A Well, one of them --certainly --one of them, I think, indicated that they did. 
24 And then one of them, I think, had to --was working on some litigation in Texas. 
25 Q Okay. And I do recall the text messages that you produced. And, just to  23 
1 go back to, I guess, the original question, I know you mentioned that you thought some 
2 national figures were making some inaccurate statements about Wisconsin. So was it 
3 your concern then that, if you were to say that you were the only proper electors, that 
4 was not right because the proper electors were the electors of the Democratic Party. Is 
5 that what your concern was? 
6 A Well, I certainly wouldn't have wanted to say that we were the only proper 
7 electors when Biden had won the State. But, if a court had ruled that the challenges 
8 prevailed, then I understood --my understanding was there could be this alternative slate 
9 of electors that would have to, you know, would have to have met and done similar work. 
10 Q So help us understand, where did your understanding come from that, you 
11 know, if a court ruled, you could have this alternate slate of electors appointed? 
12 A So my RPW, Republican Party of Wisconsin, counsel, Joe Olson, would have 
13 given me, you know, advice on that. And he is the one who walked me through the 
14 Hawaii case and why our electors would need to meet. And, you know, talk to me about 
15 the fact that the only way these electors would really count is if a court said so. And 
16 then, ultimately, also, the Governor would have to send a certificate of, I think, it's called 
17 a certificate of final determination that would also indicate that these were the electors 
18 to be utilized. 
19 Q And was it your understanding this court ruling could happen and a 
20 Governor could send the certificate after the safe-harbor deadline had passed? 
21 
22 A 
Q That was the advice I was given by counsel, yes. 
Okay. And did Mr. Olson --what was his, I guess, connection to Wisconsin 
23 and this elector issue? 
24 A So Mr. Olson has been a long-time outside counsel to the Republican Party 
25 of Wisconsin for years and years, going on probably more than a decade or more. And  24 
1 I've worked with him extensively over the years on election issues. He is somebody that 
2 I as state party chair would talk to and call upon frequently. He also at this time was 
3 counsel for the RNC as well, like outside counsel. 
4 Q And, to your understanding, was Mr. Olson also involved in any litigation 
5 involving, like, challenges to the vote in Wisconsin in the 2020 election? 
6 A Yes, yes, I would certainly say so. He is the one who, for example, sent me 
7 the recount petition that the Trump campaign was going to file. So I don't know exactly 
8 kind of what work he did or anything, but, you know, I would have considered him sort of 
9 my main liaison to the Trump campaign legal team. And he is who I would have 
10 interacted with. 
11 Q Okay. So is it fair to say, as of November 27th, you understood that Biden 
12 had --Joe Biden had won the popular vote, but there was still a chance through litigation 
13 that President Trump could win the State of Wisconsin, the popular vote? 
14 A Certainly, there was the recount that was still going on at that point. My 
15 understanding from Mr. Olson was that they would likely appeal if they were not --and 
16 when I say "they," the Trump campaign --would likely appeal to the Wisconsin Supreme 
17 Court if they did not prevail in that recount. And then, ultimately, if they didn't prevail 
18 there, the plan was to appeal to the United States Supreme Court. There were also 
19 some other Federal cases that were going on that I didn't --that I wasn't really involved 
20 in, and Mr. Olson and I didn't talk about them extensively, I think, because we were really 
21 focused more on the recount than the other litigation that was going on. 
22 Q And you were focused on the recount because presumably, if the recount 
23 showed that President Trump won, then the Republican Party electors would be the 
24 proper slate, sort of? 
25 A Right. If --correct. If --there would be a difference between sort of what  25 
1 the vote count was and what votes legally counted. For example, if absentee ballots, 
2 because there wasn't an application, a written application filed by the voter, if they were 
3 thrown out, then that would change the outcome. If the indefinite confined --the folks 
4 that said they were indefinitely confined but weren't, if somehow that was thrown out, 
5 that could change the outcome, the ultimate outcome of the election. 
6 Q And, when you shared your concern with Mr. Henson that --that if they 
7 wanted you to stay, that you all were the Republican Party electors, were the only proper 
8 electors, if you can recall --do you recall if he shared that same concern as you? 
9 A Yeah, I don't think I could. All I know is what I put in my text message. 
10 That's all I can recall. He said he didn't think so. 
11 Q And do you recall who he was talking to? It sounds from the text messages 
12 that he was talking to other folks? 
13 A I don't think we --I don't believe we talked about that. Clayton, Mr. 
14 Henson worked at the RNC at the time as the regional political director. But in the 2016 
15 cycle, he worked, I believe, on the campaign and then worked in the White House for a 
16 time. So he had many contacts and connections to the campaign in addition to the RNC. 
17 He was not just some RNC employee that, you know, didn't have connections with other 
18 folks on the campaign. 
19 Q Okay. And so you're not sure whether he was talking to the Trump 
20 campaign at this point in time about the issue of getting the Republican Party electors 
21 together to vote on December 14th? 
22 A I don't --I don't know for certain. But, based on sort of the text messages 
23 that I can see, you know --from Mark, too: Well, what do you think the campaign 
24 wants? 
25 You know, it seemed like it was coming from the campaign as opposed to the RNC.  1 But I don't really recall talking or thinking about it at the time. 
2 Q Do you recall if you had any other concerns when you heard --you know, 
3 when you talked to Mr. Henson aside from saying that the Republican Party electors are 
4 the only proper electors? 
5 
6 A 
Q I don't recall any others, no. 
Do you recall if Mr. Jefferson ended up sending the list of electors to Mr. 
7 Henson or to the campaign? 
8 A He sent the October 6th document that lists everybody and, I believe, their 
9 address, their street address to Mr. Henson and copied me on that email. 
10 Q And I just want to note for the record Mr. Schiff, a member of the select 
11 committee has joined. 
12 
13 A 
Q Thank you. 
So, if we look on the same page, still you've --I believe you send a 
14 voicemail --I believe that's from you --to Mr. Jefferson. Do you recall who left you a 
15 voicemail? 26 
16 A No. No. Unless there is --is this one where, on the next page --is this the 
17 Mr. Brown one or the Ms. Phillips one? 
18 Q No, I mean, I'll --if you look at the blue text. You say: To be honest with 
19 you, I'm starting to run a little low on tolerance for some of this. My understanding is 
20 Sidney Powell has been shit-canned from the legal team, so I'm not planning to bother 
21 calling them back. 
22 And he says: Better yet, the whole VM --which I think is voice mail --sounds 
23 shady. 
24 Does that refresh your recollection? 
25 A I think it was somebody from the Sidney Powell team, but I don't --or the  1 voicemail referenced her, but I don't recall. 
2 
3 
4 Q 
A 
Q Do you recall if you called back this person? 
I don't believe I did. 
Do you remember why --or do you know why Mr. Jefferson said the whole 
5 voicemail sounds shady? 
6 
7 A 
Q No, I don't really. 
Mr. Jefferson also says: Shouldn't they work with Troupis. Do you 
8 understand what he meant by that? 27 
9 A Yeah, Jim Troupis was the Trump campaign counsel in Wisconsin, a long-time 
10 lawyer in Wisconsin, a long time election law lawyer in Wisconsin, a former Dane County 
11 Circuit Court judge, and that's who Mr. Jefferson was referring to. 
12 Q So was it your understanding Mr. Jefferson, he is asking why 
13 don't --whoever called you just talk to Mr. Troupis because he was actually the one 
14 involved in the litigation? 
15 
16 A 
Q That's correct. 
If you go to your message right above, you say: Let's see how much 
17 pressure they put on to try and get contact info. That will give us an indication. 
18 Can you just explain what you meant by this text message? It seems like you had 
19 some concerns about sharing contact information. 
20 A Yes, I did have concerns, which is why we only gave them the January --or 
21 the October 6th document with names and --names and addresses. You know, as I said 
22 before, I was very concerned about national figures saying things that were false about 
23 what occurred in Wisconsin. And I didn't want anybody --any of these national people 
24 calling our electors specifically and telling them --putting pressure on them, telling them 
25 anything as my text from above --from that kind of memorialize the conversation I had  28 
1 with Clayton, I was concerned that they were going to try to push us to say we were the 
2 only proper electors. And I didn't want them doing that to our individual electors across 
3 the State. These are just volunteers who felt like they're doing a public service. 
4 Q Do you recall that what ended up --what you sent or what Mr. Jefferson 
5 sent, the list from October 6th, it did not include like phone numbers, for instance, of the 
6 electors? 
7 
8 A 
Q I don't believe so. It's one of the documents that we submitted. 
Do you recall if you got any push back, or if Mr. Jefferson received any 
9 push back for not providing the contact information of the Republican Party electors? 
10 A I don't believe that he did. 
11 Q And you might have already answered this, but just to confirm, when you 
12 say in your message, "To be honest with you, I'm starting to run a little low on tolerance 
13 for some of this," what was --you know, what you referring to when you said "some of 
14 this"? 
15 A I believe, again, I was referring to these --these national figures who were 
16 talking about Wisconsin, and they were on TV doing press conferences, and what they 
17 were saying simply was not accurate. For example, the Milwaukee vote and how it was 
18 such a surprise and how there was something --there was an illegal vote dump. That's 
19 just not accurate. It's not the case.  1 
2 [11:01 a.m.] 
3 BYMS.-: 
4 
5 Q 
A Do you recall when the Wisconsin --the recount was completed? 
I think the recount was completed like kind of around December 10th or 29 
6 11th, because then they would have filed the petition. I believe it would be called in the 
7 Wisconsin Supreme Court the next --the next day or the same day, which I think was 
8 around Friday, December 12th, or --no, that would have been --I think it was around 
9 December 11th --Friday, December 11th, if I have my dates right. 
10 Q Okay. I have it, and I could be wrong, that the recount was completed 
11 around November 29th, and that the Biden-Harris margin expanded --I think it was 
12 maybe a couple hundred votes. Does that sound right? 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 A I don't --I don't recall the specific --if that's --
Q Okay. 
A --what you have, then I'm sure it is. 
Q Okay. 
A There's a lot of nuance to the election laws and the reviews, so --there's a 
18 canvass that takes place, I recall, and then there's the recount, and then there is kind of 
19 like the review of the recount. And I'm pretty sure that the --they filed with the 
20 Wisconsin Supreme Court like that December 10th or 11th time period. So something 
21 would have triggered that. I don't know if it was a circuit court review or what it was. 
22 Q At least, though, from your recollection, the recount was completed before 
23 December 14th? 
24 
25 A Yes. 
Q Go to page 2 of the same text message thread.  30 
1 
2 
3 
4 Mr. Jefferson says: "Left you a rambling voice mail and interested in your take." 
Do you recall if that had anything to do with this alternate elector issue? 
A 
Q Yeah. I don't know for certain, but I don't believe it did. 
On November 27th, at 7 p.m., he sends you the VCF for someone named Kim 
5 Jorns. Do you see that? 
6 
7 A 
Q Yes. 
Do you --do you know whether that had anything to do with the elector 
8 issue or the December 14th meeting? 
9 A Probably not. Kim Jorns was an employee of the RNC. I don't recall her 
10 exact role, but she has to do with State parties and developing State parties. And I 
11 think --I think around this time, she was taking a leave of absence from the RNC to do 
12 Ronna McDaniel's RNC reelection. And as I'd indicated before, I was asked to be on the 
13 leadership team, and I think that's what this was about. 
14 Q You respond --I'm not quite sure the time stamp, but it doesn't matter for 
15 purposes of the question. You send a tweet from Jennifer Jacobs, and it's a clip of 
16 Mr. Giuliani where he says: "We're going to the State legislatures. The public has only 
17 a small idea of the kind of evidence that we have." 
18 Do you recall why you sent this text message to Mr. Jefferson? 
19 A Yeah. I think this is consistent with what we've talked about, which is, you 
20 know, kind of ongoing concern about national figures and what they were saying about 
21 the election, and what they might, you know, ask or ask, you know, Wisconsin legislators 
22 to do, and I wanted Mark to see it. 
23 Q And, specifically, what Mr. Giuliani says is: "We're going to the State 
24 legislatures." 
25 Do you --did you ever hear that Mr. Giuliani went to any members of the  31 
1 Wisconsin State legislature? 
2 
3 
4 A 
Q I don't believe --I don't believe that I did, no. 
Let's turn to exhibit 6. 
These are text messages that you produced to us, Mr. Hitt. And let me 
5 know --can you see that okay? 
6 
7 A 
Q I can. 
Great. So this is Bates 74. This is a text message thread with Joe Olson. 
8 Is that the Mr. Olson we've been talking about who serves as outside counsel for 
9 the Wisconsin Republican Party and was involved in the --some of the litigation in the 
10 State? 
11 
12 A 
Q Correct. 
Okay. So on December 4th, at 9:06 a.m., he sends to you: "We are going 
13 to need our electors to vote on the 14th." 
14 So I interpreted this as, you know, as the decision has been made. Is this --do 
15 you recall, is this like the first time that you heard there was actually a plan to have the 
16 Republican Party electors meet on December 14th? 
17 A So leading up to this text message on December 4th, Joe Olson and I talked a 
18 number of times, I believe like around the 29th of November and then December 2nd and 
19 December 3rd. We had conversations at that point on --on kind of the potential for the 
20 electors to need to meet. So this wasn't --this wasn't the first I had heard of it, but this 
21 was the --you know, the definitive advice that he said we're go --we're going to need our 
22 electors to vote. 
23 Q Okay. Had you --and I did not ask this earlier. Between that, you know, 
24 November 27th and December 4th, had you talked to any of the other Republican Party 
25 electors about this potential meeting on December 14th?  32 
1 A I don't --I don't recall talking to anybody about it. I would have talked to 
2 Mark Jefferson. 
3 Q And he says: "They need to do it at the capitol, the legislature doesn't 
4 need to take any formal action. The vote just needs to be happen at the capitol and be 
5 recorded somehow." 
6 Do you know the basis of his understanding when he said, you know, "They need 
7 to do it at the capitol, the legislature doesn't need to take any formal action"? 
8 
9 A 
Q I do not, no. 
Okay. Did you understand what he meant when he said "the legislature 
10 doesn't need to take any formal action"? 
11 
12 
13 A 
Q 
A Not beyond really what it says, which -­
Okay. 
--which is, you know, basically that the elector meeting just has to occur so 
14 you have an alternative slate, but the legislature doesn't need to do anything. 
15 Q Okay. They don't need to, for instance, like, call a special session or 
16 something and pass legislation saying that the Republican Party electors are the --the 
17 electors of the State. Is that fair? 
18 
19 
20 A 
Q 
A Correct. Yeah. 
Okay. 
And he --you know, he know --he would know that I've never been through 
21 this and never been an elector. So there was, during this process, a little bit more 
22 hand-holding than --than normal for me. 
23 Q I know earlier you mentioned the Hawaii case, and we'll talk about that. To 
24 your knowledge, had there ever been, you know, what I'll call the --an alternate elector 
25 meeting of either party in Wisconsin before?  33 
I don't know. 
Okay. Do you recall if you ever asked that to anyone? 1 
2 
3 A 
Q 
A I --Mr. Olson and I and then another lawyer, Mr. Kelly, and I, you know, had 
4 some pretty extensive conversations. I don't recall if I ever asked that specific question. 
5 Q Did Mr. Olson ever tell you that he was receiving any pressure to --to 
6 get --to help convene this meeting of the alternate electors --the Republican Party 
7 electors on December 14th? 
8 
9 A 
Q No, he did not. 
Okay. Did he ever tell you who else he would have been --who he was 
10 talking to in connection with this December 14th meeting? 
11 A So I learned really through Mark Jefferson that he was talk --that the legal 
12 teams were --were talking and that --my understanding was Mr. Olson and Mr. Troupis 
13 were in, you know, some kind of frequent conversations. I learned sort of 
14 after --actually, not until probably February of 2021, that Mr. Chesebro was involved 
15 pretty extensively in Wisconsin. 
16 Q Did you understand that Mr. Troupis had a --some sort of association with 
17 the Trump campaign? 
18 A He was the Trump campaign's, I think it's fair to say, lead counsel in 
19 Wisconsin for the recount and the litigation surrounding it. 
20 
21 
22 
23 Q 
A 
Q 
A And what about Mr. Chesebro? Do you have understanding of -­
I'm not sure --
--understanding of his connection to the Trump campaign, if at all? 
No. I really don't. I --I --I didn't even know who Mr. Chesebro was until 
24 December 14th, and I --and I recall having to ask somebody, who is this guy? I didn't --I 
25 didn't know who he was. I didn't know why he was there. I don't recall if --if I asked  34 
1 that at the RPW or if we were at the capitol at that point, but I recall saying, who is this 
2 guy? And then I was told that it was Mr. Chesebro. 
3 I had heard his name before from Mark Jefferson but really didn't understand kind 
4 of the more significant role he seemed to play until February of 2021, when --when we 
5 were going through the complaint in the Wisconsin Elections Commission. 
6 Q And, you know, without going into, you know, any privileged conversations 
7 you might have had with your counsel, what did you learn about Mr. Chesebro's role? 
8 A So, I mean, it seems pretty clear that he wrote a number of memo --memos. 
9 He was really the one that was sort of guiding this whole process and had come up with 
10 the strategy and kind of laid it out. 
11 Based --not --an email I didn't see or don't recall seeing until doing this between 
12 him and Mr. Troupis, it seemed like Mr. Chesebro may have had --had come up with this 
13 in Wisconsin, and then it grew to other States. 
14 Q So you --so is it fair to say you --you've learned this, but you didn't 
15 appreciate that at the time? You've learned that since --since the elector meeting in 
16 February 2021, in fact? 
17 A Correct. I didn't have --I didn't have any interaction, I believe, with 
18 Mr. Chesebro, except, you know, some forwarded emails that he --that, you know, he 
19 was on, and then meeting him on December 14th. 
20 Q Do you know if Mr. Chesebro is from Wisconsin or otherwise has some sort 
21 of connection to Wisconsin? 
22 A I believe he's from Massachusetts. I don't know --I don't know why he was 
23 here, who asked him to come here, or if he has a connection to here. 
24 Q So up until, you know, December 4th, had you had any direct 
25 communications with anyone from the Trump campaign about meeting on  35 
1 December 14th for the alternate elector meeting? 
Up until December 4th, you're saying? 2 
3 A 
Q Yeah. The --the text messages that we're looking at on exhibit 6, had you 
4 talked to anyone from the Trump campaign, to your knowledge, about that meeting? 
5 
6 A 
Q No. Only --the only person would have been --sorry. 
No, you can go ahead. 
7 A The only person would have been Clayton Henson on November 27th, and 
8 then Joe Olson kind of leading up to the 4th. I don't believe I talked to anybody else in 
9 that time period. 
10 Q Do you know how it went from a potential meeting to an actual meeting for 
11 December 14th, such as did anything change, to your understanding, as to what was 
12 happening in Wisconsin? 
13 A Well, for --for me, I guess my legal counsel said that we needed to meet. 
14 That was on December 4th. December 7th, I called a meeting again with our legal 
15 counsel. That was, I believe, at like 3 in the afternoon. I had also talked to special 
16 counsel to the RPW at 11 o'clock that morning and worked our way through the issue. 
17 specifically called him and asked whether or not he was in the loop on this alternate 
18 electors meeting. He said he wasn't. 
19 We talked for about a half hour kind of thinking through --thinking through the 
20 issues and if --what questions --you know, what other questions do I need to ask and 
21 think through. I don't think he was available for the 3 o'clock meeting, so then we had 
22 that 3 o'clock meeting on December 7th. 
23 Q I'm sorry. Who did you say who you asked if they were in the loop on the 
24 alternate elector meeting on December 7th? 
25 A Yeah. That was Dan Kelly, who was also a lawyer --outside lawyer. His  36 
1 title is special counsel at that point. I had brought him on in Wisconsin to kind of help 
2 with --he's from Wisconsin. I brought him on to kind of advise on election law matters, 
3 and I think he started in August. 
4 You know, in April --March-April of 2020, through the summer, as a result of the 
5 pandemic, there were, at one point, seven legal --seven different pieces of litigation 
6 going on regarding election laws and procedures, and it just --it was too much to be able 
7 to keep up with, so I brought him on to kind of help --help manage that and advise on it. 
8 Q Okay. But other than the change being that legal counsel told you to meet, 
9 you're not aware of what else might have prompted the decision to actually --to actually 
10 meet on December 14th? 
11 A So certainly the --the pending --the litigation. So I think the --if we're 
12 going past kind of like December 4th, the main thing, at least here in Wisconsin, would 
13 have been the Wisconsin Supreme Court litigation that was the recount. And then, even 
14 once they decided that on the morning of the 14th, it was only --it was a 4-3 decision. 
15 So it was very, very close that they --they would have overturned basically the results, 
16 and then that was going to go to the United States Supreme Court. 
17 Q Okay. So just to take it one by one, is it your understanding the Wisconsin 
18 Supreme Court, they denied the emergency petition from the Trump campaign? Does 
19 that sound right to you? 
20 A They --I don't recall the exact, like, litigation posture. I know --they ruled 
21 four to three not to rule in President Trump's favor is how I would say it. 
22 Q Okay. So, meaning, like, the recount stood, or the President --or Joe Biden 
23 had won the popular vote in Wisconsin, and that had not --that was not going to be 
24 changed by the Wisconsin Supreme Court. Is that fair to say? 
25 A Right. That would --that would not be changed by the Wisconsin Supreme  37 
1 Court. I did know that the --through Mr. Olson, that the Trump campaign was planning 
2 to appeal to the United States Supreme Court. They did that, I believe, on like 
3 December 29th. 
4 Q I think that's right. That's what I said too. They filed their petition before 
5 the Supreme Court. Okay. December 29th. 
6 Let's see. Was there any other litigation that --that you understood could affect 
7 whether or not the Republican Party electors would want to meet on December 14th? 
8 A There were Federal cases in Wisconsin going on. I think, at that point, 
9 maybe just one Federal case. That was sort of in similar kind of litigation posture. It 
10 was still ongoing. I don't recall when they would have lost at the district court. I think 
11 it might have been up --going up on appeal to the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals. But 
12 I know that case was going on. I did not follow that case very closely. 
13 If I remember right, it wasn't the campaign that filed that. It wasn't the Trump 
14 campaign that filed it, but it was somebody else. And so I just --you know, I just didn't 
15 spend a lot of time on that case. 
16 Q And I think you mentioned you had some calls, at least in part, because you 
17 didn't --you were new to this and you didn't know what December 14th would entail. Is 
18 that a fair characterization? 
19 
20 A 
Q Absolutely. 
So what were the kinds of --well, what kind of information or guidance were 
21 you seeking in connection with the December 14th meeting in the days leading up? 
22 
23 
24 A 
Q 
A I had never been to --sorry. 
No problem. 
I had never been to --I had never been to an elector meeting. Quite 
25 frankly, I had no idea what even took place at it. So I wasn't necessarily somebody who  38 
1 required a line by line for a lot of things, but I didn't know what --I didn't know what to 
2 do. I didn't know what to say. I didn't know, you know, really what documents we had 
3 to sign, what we had to do with them. And so it was sort of those logistic-type 
4 questions of, okay, what do --what do we have to do here? 
5 
6 Q 
A And what information were you provided, from what you can recall? 
So, you know, I think --I actually don't recall if they ever did give me the 
7 line by line until that morning of December 14th. I'm fairly quick on my feet, and they 
8 got used to that, and I think they gave it to me on the way to the capitol, but I don't really 
9 recall seeing it, you know, what documents we were going to have to sign. 
10 I remember one, you know, really specific thing was one of the electors couldn't 
11 be there. He had a work conflict, you know, because we didn't really --you know, we 
12 didn't think we were going to have to meet, and so he had a work conflict that he let, you 
13 know, go on the calendar. So we had to replace an elector. And so that was a fairly 
14 significant part of the conversation, as I had to learn how it is I would go about doing that. 
15 Q And when you say the line by line, is the --are you referring to like --like a 
16 script that you would read during the --the meeting? 
17 
18 A 
Q Correct. 
Okay. But do you --because I did not see a --any script in your production, 
19 which is fine if you don't have it anymore. Do you recall, like, actually reading from a 
20 piece of paper during that meeting on December 14th? 
21 A Yeah. I think they gave me some sort of, like, here's what you've got to say 
22 sort of thing. Here are the motions you have to do. I remember thinking this isn't 
23 much of a line by line. It --there wasn't a lot there, but this --this is sort of what you 
24 need to do. 
25 Q Now, I do recall from your production there were emails about a 2016 line  1 by line. Does that refresh your recollection at all? 
Yes. Yes. They -­
Okay. 39 
2 
3 
4 A 
Q 
A They started off by looking at the line by line that they would have produced 
5 in 2016 for the then chairman. That was a frequent thing that would be done. 
6 remember getting line by lines for RPW conventions where it would be from years past 
7 and they forgot to change something, so yes. 
8 Q Okay. And in 2016, the Republican Party electors did actually vote for 
9 the --the certified winners of the State, which was President Trump and Vice President 
10 Pence. Is that --is that right? 
11 A Yes. We did have a recount going on that year as well, though, and I 
12 actually was involved in that recount on --as a --
13 
14 
15 Q 
A 
Q Okay. 
--as legal counsel. 
Okay. But you don't recall if the Democratic Party electors had an alternate 
16 meeting --alternate elector meeting in 2016, do you? 
17 
18 A 
Q I don't. 
Okay. So --and I know we've touched on this a little bit before, but, you 
19 know, understanding that there had been this --this recount that confirmed that Joe 
20 Biden had won Wisconsin, the --won the popular vote in Wisconsin, did you have, you 
21 know, any concerns with participating in a --in a meeting with the Republican Party 
22 electors to cast, you know, purported electoral votes for President Trump and Vice 
23 President Pence on December 14th? 
24 A Well, that's why I met with legal counsel, to kind of walk through, you know, 
25 what are we doing, do we have the authority to do it, what are we going to do after it,  40 
1 sort of understanding that, basically, if we didn't meet, that it was completely waived. 
2 And what I mean by that is, if we --if we didn't meet and a court subsequently 
3 ruled that these challenges in Wisconsin were successful, the guidance I was given is it 
4 would be irrelevant because the elector meeting had not taken place. 
5 Q Okay. So you were --from what you can recall, you were told by legal 
6 counsel, if you all didn't meet on December 14th and there was later a court decision that 
7 perhaps threw out a bunch of Biden votes and made President Trump the winner of the 
8 State, it wouldn't matter because you --you guys hadn't met on December 14th. Is that 
9 fair? 
10 A Yes, that's fair. I was told there would be a complete waiver. And I 
11 remember --I remember asking, how could that be? Like, how could you have, you 
12 know, such a --what seems like a ministerial task, you know, meet at the capitol 
13 December 14th at noon, you know, how --how could that be? 
14 And I even asked: Let's say we can't --you know, we are not allowed in the 
15 capitol and we meet on the grass or the snow, you know, on the sidewalk. What 
16 happens then? And the advice --the advice I got back was: That might not count. 
17 It's not complying with the statute. You have to meet. 
18 Now, the only way --so following up on that, the only way these vote --these 
19 alternative slate of electors would matter, though, is if a court said so. If a court ruled 
20 that the challenges were successful and that --that the challenges were successful and 
21 that Trump had won, the only way these elector votes would count would be that, and 
22 then that the Governor would have to send a certificate of, I believe it's called final 
23 determination. 
24 And there's a couple of other certificates too. There's a certificate of 
25 ascertainment, and then there's a statement of the canvass from the Wisconsin Elections  41 
1 Commission that I --I don't know for certain, but, at the time, I remember thinking that 
2 all of those or at least some of that would also have to be sent for the --for this to do 
3 anything. Otherwise, what we did on December 14th is basically meaningless. 
4 Q And who was the legal counsel who told you this --
5 A Mr. Olson. 
6 Q --about the waiver? 
7 Mr. Olson. Okay. Was it any other people that you recall told you that? 
8 A I only --I think I only really talked with Mr. Olson and Mr. Kelly. I talked to 
9 Mr. Troupis --you know, looking at my phone records, I think there's one call in there, 
10 short call. I don't remember, you know, the substance of the conversation, but I 
11 didn't --I didn't interact or talk much with the Trump legal campaign team. 
12 Q And Mr. Olson --you unders---did you understand that he had some sort of 
13 association with the Trump campaign or solely with the Wisconsin Republican Party? 
14 A He was the Republican Party of Wisconsin outside counsel. He was also 
15 outside counsel for the Republican --for the RNC for the recount as well. I don't --I 
16 don't think he had any role with the Trump campaign. 
17 Q And you --and you --you're not aware if he was having at least 
18 communications with the Trump campaign? 
19 
20 
21 A 
Q 
A Oh, I certainly believe he was having -­
Oh. 
--communications with the Trump legal team --Trump campaign legal team, 
22 like Mr. Troupis. 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A 
Q Okay. 
But I --
The lega I team -- 42 
A I don't know --
Q Oh, excuse me. You can go ahead. I'm sorry. 1 
2 
3 A I don't know that it was --okay. I don't think it was beyond that, though, or 
4 at least I don't know if it was. 
5 
6 
7 Q Okay. And the legal team being, like, Judge or Mr. Troupis? 
A Correct. 
Q Okay. In the lead-up to December 14th, did you share this advice with any 
8 of the other Republican Party electors? 
9 A Yes, we did. We had a --at some point, we had a conference call. 
10 couldn't actually find any phone record of it, but I know, in a text message, Mark 
11 referenced and I --I believe we did have one. I think I might have done it from the 
12 Republican Party of Wisconsin, which is why it wouldn't have been on my phone records. 
13 And then Mark sent some text messages with them regarding the elector meeting. 
14 There was one elector, Darryl Carlson, who actually asked for the Hawaii case. I believe 
15 Mark sent it to him. I asked him to, although I don't know for certain. 
16 
17 Q Okay. And did you say it was Darryl Carlson? 
A Correct. He would have been the elector from the sixth --Sixth 
18 Congressional District? 
19 Q Okay. And do you recall any of the other Republican Party electors ever 
20 expressing any concerns about meeting on the 14th? 
21 A They asked --you know, they asked lots of good questions about, okay, so 
22 what are we doing? How are we doing this? That's kind of typical thing. The --the 
23 bigger concerns that they asked about, though, were --was just about security. They 
24 were --they were very concerned about their safety and their security. 
25 Q And you anticipated where I was going to go next, because I did see in the  43 
1 text messages a lot of discussion about, you know, security guards or media risks. 
2 And could you talk a little bit more about, you know, what concerns people had, 
3 that you know of, regarding security, safety, and what efforts you all took to --you know, 
4 to help, I guess, protect the Republican Party electors on that day? 
5 A Yeah. It was just --I mean, it was obviously a very volatile time. There 
6 were --and, you know, in 2020, there were also, you know, instances where riots had 
7 occurred in Madison. We had riots that occurred in Kenosha regarding an incident. 
8 think there was more that occurred in the Milwaukee area. 
9 So there was just a general concern about --about safety. And if --if--you 
10 know, how we were going to keep everybody safe if somebody wanted to disrupt 
11 something or if there was a protest that would occur. 
12 You know, I also, throughout this time, got several phone calls to my office that 
13 my secretary relayed to me demanding to know my exact location. I don't know --I 
14 don't have an exact idea of how frequent that was. I actually remember her at one 
15 point telling me, we get daily calls asking to know where your exact location is. 
16 I never verified, but I got a lot of threatening emails, quite frankly, from both sides 
17 of the political aisle. And so it was a volatile time, and our electors were worried, and so 
18 was I. 
19 Q I'm sorry to hear that. We've heard from other officials in different States 
20 similar stories. 
21 Do you recall, were any of the calls that you got about, like, demanding 
22 investigations into election fraud or asking what the party was doing with respect to 
23 election fraud in the 2020 election? 
24 
25 A 
Q Yes. Absolutely, there were. 
Yeah. And from what you can recall, was this, you know, continuous even  1 after election day? 
2 A Oh, it was --it was more significant after election day and into --this 
3 continued well into the middle of January before it started to trail off. I had --I had --I 
4 had significant concerns about going to public events. 
5 Q And when you say mid-January, do you mean like --we're talking like after 
6 January 6th, like the middle of the month? 
7 A Yes. Like --
8 
9 Q 
A Okay. 
You know, it was probably, you know, the --around the --maybe around 
10 inauguration time when it finally started to trail off. It's not something I necessarily 
11 wanted to have to deal with every day, but that --you know, my secretary did --did let 
12 me know that. 
13 Q Did you ever hear that you received any calls from anyone asking you to 
14 appoint or participate in an alternate elector meeting on December 14th? 44 
15 A No. Nobody really understood that. I mean, I --I sort of --sort of say this, 
16 you know, kind of lightheartedly, but, like, you know, they --they --people would push so 
17 hard that, you know, I didn't do anything, and I wasn't supporting the President, and they 
18 would have no understanding or appreciation that, you know, we --you know, we did this 
19 alternate slate of electors in case there was a court ruling. That was the thing that we 
20 could do. 
21 But they --I mean, it's just so nuanced and so --I mean, people don't understand 
22 the electoral college and have an appreciation for it, so --
23 Q Do you recall if you ever received any outreach from President Trump during 
24 the 2020 election, including, you know, after election day? 
25 A Yeah. No, I did not. I talked to the President twice in my life. Once was  45 
1 in April of 2019, when he came to Green Bay for a rally, and I talked to him briefly in the 
2 photo line, maybe 10 seconds. And then I talked to him in January of 2020, when he 
3 came to Milwaukee for a rally. And, again, I talked to him in the photo line. That 
4 conversation maybe was a little longer. It was about 30 seconds long probably, because 
5 he asked me about where farmers would be in Wisconsin, meaning how are the farmers 
6 going to vote. But those are the only two conversations I believe I ever had with him. 
7 Q Do you recall whether anyone, you know, called you during the 2020 
8 election --and I'll say, you know, after election day --on his behalf, you know, maybe 
9 other members of the White House or part of the Trump campaign, the nonlegal side? 
10 A Yeah. No. Not --I mean, not really. I mean, I have that one --there's a 
11 phone call from Mike Roman on December 12th in the morning. I believe it's Mike 
12 Roman. It's a 202 number. I don't have Mr. Roman in my phone. I had to actually 
13 google it as I was trying to figure out who --you know, going back through my phone 
14 records. 
15 So I believe it was him, and I do recall, you know, getting a phone call from him. 
16 And I think it was this December 12th one. And I initiated the call. So I think 
17 somebody either called me or texted me, or he texted me and said can you call me. 
18 And so I called him, and he --he asked, are your elector --are you guys --are your 
19 electors meeting on Monday? This was Saturday morning. 
20 And I remember how --I was struck by how odd the phone call was, because how 
21 could he not know that we were meeting --you know, to me, it was --December 4th is 
22 when I got that guidance from legal counsel saying we needed to meet. So it just --it 
23 seemed very, like, disconnected, and, you know, sort of unorganized. 
24 That is on top of the December 11th call I received from the Pennsylvania chair, 
25 which is in my phone records too. Lawrence --I don't know how to say his last name.  46 
1 think it's Ta bas or Ta bas. He had called me. I think he call --he either called me earlier 
2 in the week and left a voicemail or sent me a text message. I returned his call on 
3 that --that --I think it was a Friday, December 11th. And he --he asked me, are your 
4 electors meeting. And I said, well, yeah. I mean, our electors are meeting. Why? 
5 And he said, well, I guess this is just all new to me. I'm not sure why 
6 we're --what's going on or why we're doing this, and I'm getting all these calls from the 
7 Trump campaign. 
8 And --and I --it became very clear to me that Wisconsin was just in --on a 
9 different path and in a different position. And I --and so I said to him --I said, I 
10 don't --you know, I don't know what to tell you. In Wisconsin, you know, we've got 
11 ongoing litigation. We're in the Wisconsin Supreme Court. I think we just filed that 
12 day. We've got a bunch of like legal issues that are, you know, pretty significant here. 
13 So it just seems like we're on a different path, and I couldn't --I couldn't really help him 
14 out much. 
15 So he's not from the Trump campaign, but it informed my --the call that I 
16 then --that I had on December 12th with Mr. Roman. 
17 There's one other person that I would talk to from time to time from the White 
18 House, but I don't recall ever talking to him in the fall. His name was, I think, Brian 
19 Jacks, and I talked to him during the April election mainly. We had a pretty hotly 
20 contested Wisconsin Supreme Court race, and he would often call and ask me how that 
21 was --was going and those types of things. But nobody --nobody that I can recall from 
22 the --from the White House. 
23 Q Is Mr. --and I believe his name is Brian Jack. Is he from Wisconsin, do you 
24 know? 
25 A I don't know that.  1 
2 
3 Q 
A 
Q 47 
Okay. 
I talked to him maybe three or four times ever. 
For Mr. Lawrence Tabas, did he --did he ask you for like --ask you about 
4 what guidance the Wisconsin GO --Republican Party electors had received in connection 
5 with this December 14th meeting? 
6 A I don't think he specifically referenced any guidance. He really asked if we 
7 were --if we were meeting and was trying to understand kind of why and where it was 
8 coming from. It just seemed very --it just seemed very clear to me that we were in a 
9 much different position than --than Pennsylvania. 
10 Q And can you just explain a little bit more --I know you touch on it --why you 
11 felt or why it seemed to you that Wisconsin was in a different position than maybe other 
12 States, such as Pennsylvania? 
13 A Yeah. Mainly, it just --it seemed like --it seemed like, from my 
14 conversation with him, that it was like an afterthought, like, hey, we should have our 
15 electors meet in Pennsylvania and these other States. Whereas, in Wisconsin, it seemed 
16 like it was very well thought out, like, we've got this litigation going, if we don't meet and 
17 we win this or the Trump campaign wins this litigation, we'll have waived it, and Trump 
18 could actually have won Wisconsin but not if we didn't meet. 
19 So it just seemed like we were on --I remember saying to him: Seems like we're 
20 on very different paths here. 
21 Q Did Mr. Tabas, from what you can recall from that conversation, express any 
22 concerns about meeting on December 14th? 
23 A Yeah, he did. 
24 Q Did he tell you that he wasn't going to participate in that meeting on 
25 December 14th?  1 
2 A 
Q No, he didn't. 
Okay. What --what concerns do you recall him sharing in that 
3 conversation? 48 
4 A You know, it was --it was --it was, I think, twofold. It was one on process, 
5 which is why I felt like it was sort of sprung on him at the last moment, which was very 
6 different from me. And it seemed like he was actually talking to the campaign, where I 
7 had not. And he was trying to understand why we would meet. 
8 And, you know, I --I'm quite certain I referenced the Hawaii case, and then would 
9 have talked about, at least in Wisconsin, we have this litigation that's going, and, you 
10 know, we've got a few issues that are going, and if a court ruled in our favor, it could 
11 certainly impact the outcome of the election, and likely would. 
12 Q Do you recall whether he asked for more information on the Hawaii case or 
13 if he was familiar with it? 
14 
15 A 
Q No, I don't. 
For the conversation that you had with Mr. Roman, did he --do you recall if 
16 he told you that he was calling, you know, as a member of the Trump campaign? 
17 A He --he didn't say anything like that. He real --literally, his question was, 
18 are you guys meeting on Monday? 
19 Q And you said it was an odd call. Is it mainly because you thought it --you 
20 said it was --seemed disconnected and, like, he didn't really understand what was 
21 happening in Wisconsin? 
22 
23 know? 
24 
25 A 
Q 
A Yeah, which, I mean, it just seemed strange to me. How would you not 
Do you recall if there was anyone else on the phone call? 
I don't --I don't think there was. If --if there was, I didn't know about it.  49 
1 Q Do you ever recall interacting with someone named Michael Brown, like G. 
2 Michael Brown, or Mike Brown, from the Trump campaign in connection with the 
3 alternate electors? 
4 A I don't --yeah. I don't believe I did. I did see his --I think his email 
5 address in some of the documents I produced. But, you know, whereas I had heard 
6 Mr. Chesebro's name leading up to December 14th a couple times, I don't think I ever 
7 heard, you know, Mr. Brown's name. 
8 Q Did you have any understanding as to why Mike Roman was involved in this 
9 alternate elector issue in Wisconsin? 
10 A No, not really. I mean, I know from 2016 that he was involved in that 
11 recount in Wisconsin, and so, to that extent, it didn't seem strange to me that he would 
12 be calling. It just seemed strange that he seemed to not know what was going on or 
13 that we were meeting. 
14 Q So I know you mentioned the call with Mr. Ta bas from Pennsylvania. When 
15 did you become aware that there was an effort not just in Wisconsin to convene, you 
16 know, members of Republican Party electors on December 14th? 
17 A I think it was around that time. And I don't remember --I don't remember 
18 the exact date, but I remember I have a text message to Mark Jefferson, which you 
19 probably saw, where I said something like, clearly there's --you know, clearly all --there is 
20 something more going on here with all the electors meeting. 
21 And, again, it seemed like Wisconsin was just in a different place, on a different 
22 path than --than these other States. 
23 Q I want to go a little bit --back a bit when we were talking about security 
24 concerns and safety concerns. I also saw references to --to media risks. 
25 Do you recall discussing media risks at the time before that -- Yeah. I think we were just -­
--December 14th meeting? 50 
1 
2 
3 A 
Q 
A Yeah. I think we were really just concerned that it would --you know, that 
4 that would lead to --that would be the instigation of a protest. 
5 
6 Q 
A Okay. 
Because I wanted to do a media statement. And you probably saw there 
7 was a --in a text message from Mark Jefferson to me, there's evidently a conference call 
8 with Rudy G., so I'm assuming that's Rudy Giuliani, that said, no --no media, no heads-up, 
9 or something like that. And I responded to Mark basically: We'll do whatever we 
10 want. 
11 Q Was there a concern that, you know, members of the public or the media 
12 would not understand what you all were doing on December 14th and perhaps think it 
13 was improper? Was that a concern? 
14 A No. No. I mean, we released our statement to explain everything. 
15 think that, for me, the bigger --the issue was I didn't --this was an alternative slate of 
16 electors. I did not want anyone to think that we were saying we were the proper or the 
17 only proper slate of electors. So I didn't --I didn't want to make a big deal out of this. 
18 This was a contingency plan in case the --you know, the court ruled in the Trump 
19 campaign's favor. 
20 Q Did anyone ever tell you that your alternate --this alternate slate of 
21 Republican Party electors could be counted on January 6th even if the litigation did not 
22 overturn the, you know, certified results of the vote in Wisconsin? 
23 
24 A 
Q No. 
So you never heard of that being --of being an option on January 6th, to use 
25 that alternate slate even if the litigation did not go in favor of President Trump?  51 
A Correct. I would have had significant concerns about that. 
Mr.. Well, why would you have had significant concerns about that? 1 
2 
3 The Witness. Well, one, I was told that these would only count if a court ruled in 
4 our favor. So that would have been using our electors --well, it would have been using 
5 our electors in ways that we weren't told about and we wouldn't have supported. 
6 Ms.- Did you ever tell any--anyone that, that, you know, we're 
7 doing this, but it's only if the litigation goes in favor of President Trump and changed the 
8 results? 
9 The Witness. Yes. I even said it at our electors meeting. That was --you 
10 know, the remarks I made, I think, were solely basically focused on that. And --and 
11 then, of course, the press release that I did indicated that and, you know, probably --you 
12 know, every single media interview I would have done would have been --would have, 
13 you know, indicated that as well. 
14 Ms. - So I know we've been going for a while. Do you want to 
15 maybe take a --maybe like a 5-minute break? 
16 
17 The Witness. That's up to you. I'm --I'm okay. 
Ms.- Okay. We'll --we can --maybe take a 5-minute break? We 
18 can come back at --
19 
20 The Witness. Sure. 
Ms.~ Well, it's our time 11:55. I'm not quite sure which time zone 
21 you're in. 
22 
23 
24 
25 The Witness. Yeah. It's 10:50 here, so -­
Ms.- Okay. 
The Witness. --we'll come back in 5. 
Ms.- Great. Okay. So we'll go off the record at 11:50.  1 
2 
3 
4 [Recess.] 
Ms~ So let's go back on the record. It's 11:57. 
BYMS.-: 
Q Let's pull up exhibit 8. 
5 These are text messages that you produced to us, Mr. Hitt, with Mark Jefferson. 
6 If you can --can you see that? 
A Yes. 52 
7 
8 Q Okay. Great. So I believe these messages are from December 5th, based 
9 off of the Trump tweet that you shared. Does that sound about right, December 5th? 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 A Yes. I think so. 
And what's the Bates number, Mr. Biskupic asked? 
Q Oh, excuse me. It's 80, 8-0. 
A Eighty. Okay. 
Yeah. December 6th. 
Q Oh, December 6th. Okay. Perfect. Okay. That's helpful. Thank you. 
Do you recall this --
A Yep. I actually --I noticed --sorry. 
Q Oh, perfect. Thank you. 
So Mr. Jefferson says to you: "Now, how are we gonna get this silly electors 
20 meeting canceled? I fear that we won't." 
21 You respond: "We won't. We will have to carefully craft a press release. Do 
22 you think we can do it virtually?" 
23 Do you recall having discussions with Mr. Jefferson about trying to get the 
24 Republican Party elector meeting on December 14th canceled? 
25 A I mean, you know, not in any kind of significant way beyond kind of what you  53 
1 see here. You know, it was sort of clear what the lawyer --lawyers --what Joe Olson 
2 and company were telling us that we needed to do. 
3 You know, it was a lot, though, to have to plan. You know, there was a lot of 
4 moving parts for it. The cases --you know, the --there were cases going on, but the 
5 outcome of the cases, you know, weren't real clear, and, you know, the --what we were 
6 seeing nationally about Wisconsin just kind of continued to kind of concern us. So 
7 nothing really beyond that, I guess. 
8 Q So he calls it, you know, a silly electors meeting. Do you know why or what 
9 he meant by, you know, calling it silly? 
10 A No. We didn't --we didn't talk about it beyond --that I recall, beyond kind 
11 of what you see here. 
12 Q Okay. Did you ever have any conversations with Mr. Jefferson or others 
13 that, you know, it might be a long shot that what you all were doing on December 14th 
14 could, you know, potentially have any sort of effect or that it would --you know, your 
15 votes could potentially be counted? 
16 A So, I mean, we certainly, you know, knew that --I think there's --there's two 
17 groups of cases going on. There is some Federal election --or Federal cases going on 
18 that didn't seem like they were going to be very successful. And then we had our 
19 Wisconsin recount and Wisconsin Supreme Court case. That seemed, you know, 
20 potentially that it very much could change things. It was a 4-3 decision and being 
21 appealed to what I would say a much more conservative United States Supreme Court 
22 case --or United States Supreme Court. So, you know --and --and it was very clear that 
23 the elections commission really didn't --they didn't follow the letter of the law, you 
24 know, in a number of things that they did. 
25 So --now, I think, you know, would they take that dramatic step to overturn  1 election results? Nobody --nobody really knew, but it was certainly a very, very close 
2 case here in Wisconsin. 
3 
4 
5 Q You write, you know, "We will have to carefully craft a press release." 
What did you mean by that statement? 
A I wanted to make sure our --our intent was known, what we were doing, 
6 and why we were doing it was known and was on the record. 
7 
8 
9 Q 
A 
Q Meaning that this was a sort of contingency plan. Is that fair? 
That's correct. 
Okay. In your next message, you write: "Preserve legal rights as case 
10 moves forward," dot, dot, dot, and then a rolling eyes emoji. 
11 Can you explain what you meant when you sent that to Mr. Jefferson? 
12 A Yeah. I think I was just kind of laying out, here is what we've got to focus 
13 on, you know, preserving the legal rights as the case moves forward, you know, 
14 regardless of, you know, anything else. I don't really recall beyond that, I guess. 
15 Q Okay. And I guess, you know, not to make it out more than it is, but you 
16 included, like, an emoji that's rolling the eyes. You know, what --what --what do you 
17 recall you were trying to convey with that emoji? 
18 A Yeah, I don't really recall. You know, I think --I just --I don't really recall 
19 why I used that emoji as opposed to anything else. I think it was just, you know, kind 
20 of --at this point, you know, we were --we were, you know, going through this. you 
21 know, there was a lot of conversations with our lawyers about it. It's not like --it's not 
22 like we were jumping up and down to do this alternative slate of electors. It wasn't 
23 something that either of us aspired to have to do. 
24 Q Now, you shared a tweet from President Trump where he, I'll say --I think 
25 it's a fair characterization that he criticizes Governor Doug Ducey of Arizona and 54  55 
1 Governor Brian Kemp of --excuse me --of Arizona and Governor Brian Kemp of Georgia. 
2 And you later write: "Both of us think it's unacceptable. I am seriously considering a 
3 warning shot to Trainer or Clayton. If he does this in Wisconsin, I am going to defend 
4 our guys." 
5 Were you referring to that --that tweet, what was unacceptable? 
6 
7 A 
Q Yes. 
Okay. Okay. So you weren't talking about the meeting on the 14th being 
8 acceptable; it was more President Trump's tweet? 
9 A Correct. Like --and I know that because when I had concerns about tweets 
10 or about attacking other Republicans, Mr. Clayton and Mr. Trainer are the people that I 
11 would make those --my complaints known. 
12 Q Do you recall if, during this time period, President Trump ever talked about 
13 you in a tweet in --1 guess in a negative fashion? 
14 A I had --I don't --I don't think he did, but I guess --I think --I think I would 
15 recall that. I don't --I don't --and I don't think he did. 
16 
17 
18 Q You ask: "Can we find out how the Dems plan to do it?" 
Is that in reference to the meeting on the 14th? 
A Yes, it is. Mark and I kind of go back --we, you know, have a lot of things 
19 going on, and we tend to go back and forth on things. But yes, that's what that would 
20 be referring to. 
21 I thought that the Democrats would probably do their --their meeting virtually 
22 just, you know, understanding where --where COVID was and kind of how --how they 
23 were approaching COVID and how they campaigned during COVID was very different than 
24 Republicans. And so I thought --I thought they would probably meet virtually. 
25 Q Did you ever find out how they --how the Democratic Party electors planned  1 to do the December 14th meeting in Wisconsin? 
2 A I think we knew through a media report that they planned to meet in the 
3 Governor's conference room. 
Q 
A 
Q At the capitol? 
Yes. 
If you go to page 2, so Bates 81. 56 
4 
5 
6 
7 And you sent to Mr. Jefferson: "Ron called me right after and now is arguing for 
8 us to have the legislature choose the electors. OMG." 
9 
10 
11 Do you recall who Ron is? 
A 
Q Yes. It's Senator Ron Johnson. 
Okay. What do you recall about that --that conversation with 
12 Senator Johnson? 
13 A Not a lot beyond what's in the text message. So that was on the evening of 
14 December 7th. That was the night --I think, at 6 or 7 p.m. our time --we did a 
15 conference call with county chairs --all the county chairs across the State --Republican 
16 county chairs. And we oftentimes would ask a special guest to come on. It just --I 
17 think just so happened that it was Ron Johnson this time. 
18 On that conversation --or on that county chair call, we gave them an update on, 
19 you know, where --where the recount and the recount litigation was at, and we did some 
20 frequently asked questions. I remember I got very forceful on the call regarding the 
21 Milwaukee vote and the Milwaukee so-called vote dump. 
22 Ron called me afterwards. I think he was a little surprised about --about kind of 
23 how forceful I was and said, you know, we need to --we need to have our legislature 
24 choose the electors. 
25 I --I know that I was not in support of that, that the legislature would likely not do  57 
1 that. I think, by that time, there was already a memo out from the legislative counsel 
2 that said the legislature didn't have the power to do that. And so I, you know, conveyed 
3 that to him. 
4 Q And do you recall Ms. --Senator Johnson's response when you conveyed 
5 that information to him? 
6 
7 
8 right? A 
Q I don't --no, I don't. 
And Senator Johnson, he's --he's not a part of the Wisconsin legislature,  1 
2 [12:08 p.m.] 
3 BYMS.-
4 
5 A 
Q No, correct. He is the United States Senator for Wisconsin. 
Did he say that he was going to, you know, ask the legislature to do this, to 
6 appoint the Republican Party electors? 
7 A He did not, but, you know, I think --I think there are news reports of him 
8 talking about this. And I know, at some point I think in 2021 here, he went to the 
9 legislature to talk to them about that. And there's news reports on that. Some of 58 
10 those meetings, private caucus meetings were leaked out to the media. So there's some 
11 public information on that. 
12 Q When you --you just mentioned a minute ago that you were not in favor of 
13 this proposal of the State legislature appointing their own electors. Is that right? 
14 
15 A 
Q Correct. 
So you mentioned the memo. What else, I guess, led you to believe that 
16 that was not something --that the State legislature should not do in Wisconsin? 
17 A I guess I don't recall --I don't recall who I would have talked to about this, if 
18 this was Joel Olson or if it was just legislative counsel memo, but it didn't seem the 
19 legislature had the power to do that in Wisconsin. 
20 
21 
22 Ms.~ Veah,that'sfine. 
BYMR. 
Q In addition to the question about the legislature's power, did you have a 
23 concern that maybe there wasn't a factual basis for the legislature to do that, meaning 
24 there was not sufficient evidence that had been proven of fraud to overturn the results of 
25 the election in Wisconsin?  1 A Well, certainly, only if a court would have ruled that way, then there 
2 wouldn't have been anything to support that. If the court would have, for example, 
3 taken the absentee ballots that didn't have an absentee ballot application and tossed 
4 them out, then maybe there would be a factual basis. But, absent some sort of ruling 
5 and a recount or by a court, there wouldn't be. 
6 BYMS.-: 
7 Q Did Senator Johnson give any reasons from what you recall as to why he 
8 wanted the State legislature in Wisconsin to take action? 
9 
10 A 
Q No, not that I recall. 
Did Senator Johnson want you to do anything about it with respect to the 
11 State legislature? 59 
12 A No, it was more of a, I would say, a general complaint and that a legislature 
13 should do it. He didn't ask me to call anybody. I don't know if he implied if he was 
14 implying that I should. Certainly, I think it would be fair that he would have left the 
15 conversation or understanding that I wasn't going to do that. 
16 Q We've heard from various officials --stories of the pressure that they felt 
17 from the public to do something in the State, that there was this perception from their 
18 constituents that they weren't doing enough to support President Trump. Did Senator 
19 Johnson reference, you know, reports that he was getting or pressure he was receiving 
20 from constituents to do something in Wisconsin? 
21 A Yes. And that, you know, I think that would have sort of been my 
22 experience as well if you consider --my constituents are kind of grassroots activists. 
23 There was a lot of complaints and concerns that we weren't doing enough. 
24 Q Do you recall what --when you received calls, what people wanted you to 
25 do?  60 
1 A You know, it was --that was sort of what was so frustrating for me is they 
2 would be calling and, you know, they would be asking, you know, for example, about the 
3 Milwaukee votes: You know, you've got to get rid of those Milwaukee votes; they're 
4 illegal. 
5 Well, no, they're not. Here's how they do absentee ballots in Wisconsin or in 
6 Milwaukee: They take them all to central count. And after, after --once you get to 
7 election day, they start to process them. They take them, and they put them --but they 
8 don't put them in the computer to tabulate them until the very end. And that's what 
9 happens. It happened in 2018, too. It's happened before. It may not be the best 
10 practice, but this is how they do it. 
11 Q So, I mean, is it fair to say at least some of the concerns you were getting, it 
12 was frustrating because you didn't think they were based on what actually happened in 
13 Wisconsin? 
14 
15 A 
Q Yes. True. 
If you go back to the text message thread, after your response, OMG, Mr. 
16 Jefferson writes: What is he doing? 
17 And you write: There's a huge amount of pressure building on them to find a 
18 way around the electoral college. 
19 Can you explain this message for us? 
20 A Yeah, I think I was just referring to, you know, everything that was going on 
21 in the public and everything I was picking up, you know, in news reports and of, you 
22 know, again national campaign figures, saying things that weren't true. And it was just 
23 very clear --my impression of all of this is that there was a lot of pressure on them. 
24 don't recall ever really talking to anybody about that or them telling me that, but that's 
25 what seemed clear in the public.  61 
1 Q So did you feel --did you personally feel pressure, I guess, to use your words 
2 in this text, to find a way around the electoral college during the 2020 election? 
3 A No, I really --I really didn't. The questions that came to me were more 
4 focused on dropboxes in the park, and, you know, indefinite confined. You know, 
5 people would call and say: You didn't stop these indefinite confinement abuse that was 
6 going on. 
7 And then I would have to tell them that, well, actually, yes, I filed a temporary 
8 restraining order in the Wisconsin Supreme Court and prevailed on that. The only 
9 reason it did stop is because of what I did. It was extremely frustrating in that regard. 
10 Q So was the pressure that you were feeling more about what you're doing to 
11 investigate potential election fraud or voter fraud? 
12 A I didn't feel as much as of that because I don't really have a role in it. I did 
13 form, at some point I think, in maybe January, I formed an election reform task force at 
14 the Republican Party of Wisconsin, basically, a way to give people who were working or 
15 who cared a lot about this and who worked on this at a grassroots level, give them a sort 
16 of a place to voice their concern, an outlet, if you will. 
17 
18 Q 
A With respect to potential voter irregularities or voter fraud? 
Election reform. Yeah, election reform. So, basically, how do we make 
19 sure that the indefinite confined statute isn't abused and people can just say they're 
20 indefinitely confined and then not have to present a photo ID? How can we make sure 
21 that absentee ballots rules are followed? Those sorts of things. 
22 Q And you created this, you say, January 2021? 
23 A Yeah, I think it was. I don't recall the exact --I don't think I did it in 
24 December. I think it was in, like, January of 2021. 
25 Q So, when you said in this message, you know, there is a huge amount of  62 
1 pressure building on them to find their way around the electoral college, I guess, I am just 
2 trying to understand more about --pressure to --what was the reference to the electoral 
3 college and getting around it? 
4 A I think it had to do with the State legislature choosing the electors. That 
5 was, you know, the next text message down. So I think that's what it was in regard to. 
6 Q And you perceived that, at least in the State of Wisconsin, having the State 
7 legislature appoint their own electors could be perceived as a way of finding their way 
8 around the electoral college? 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 A 
Q Steve would like to talk to me for a second. 
Oh, sure. Yeah, we can go on mute and stop the video if you want. 
[Discussion off the record.] 
BYMS.-: 
A 
Q 
A 
Q Okay. I'm back. 
Okay. I can --are you prepared to answer, or I can repeat the question? 
Yeah, could you repeat it for me, please? 
Yeah. So I was just trying to understand what you meant by there is a huge 
17 amount of pressure building on them to find a way around the electoral college. What 
18 were --what was your perception of the ways around the electoral college? 
19 A I guess, I don't --I don't know if this text even really makes sense. I think it 
20 had to do with the legislature choosing the electors. It might have had --it might have 
21 been --it probably made more sense after the conversation, but I don't --I don't really 
22 know what else to offer beyond that, except that, you know, my perception was that 
23 there was this pressure out there that was building. 
24 Q And pressure on legislators in the State of Wisconsin and, I guess, Members 
25 of Congress as well?  63 
1 A Yeah, I would just --I would just say nationally. I think I was really looking 
2 at public reports and watching what was going on. 
Q Let's go to exhibit 11. This is Bates 5. This is --if you can go down. 3 
4 
5 
6 Can you see that Mr. Hitt? 
A 
Q Yes. 
So this was a message --an email sent from Mr. Jefferson to you and Alex 
7 Zimmerman on December 9th, 2020. And Mr. Jefferson provides a proposed Jim 
8 Troupis statement on electors' meeting. Do you recall this proposed statement? 
9 
10 A 
Q Yes. 
I know we've talked, I think, previously before you mentioned a statement, 
11 discussions about potential statements for --about the December 14th meeting. Can 
12 you explain your recollection of this statement from Mr. Troup is, including why he 
13 prepared it? 
14 A So, actually, Mr. Jefferson prepared it. So, in --and actually in the court 
15 filing that was filed with the Wisconsin Supreme Court, the Trump campaign, Mr. Troupis 
16 put in there, I guess, page 8, footnote 3 or 4, that, you know, the Wisconsin electors were 
17 going to meet as an alternative slate and send their documents on. And so we wanted, 
18 Mark and I wanted it to be known why we were doing this. And so we thought the most 
19 appropriate person to comment on it would have been the Trump campaign and the 
20 Trump campaign lawyer, Mr. Troupis. So Mark prepared this for him. 
21 
22 Q 
A So why did you want it to be known about the meeting on the 14th? 
I wanted it to be known so that people would know we were doing this 
23 alternative slate of electors that, in case that, you know, the cases were successful, that 
24 we had met and that we wouldn't have waived the argument for, you know, ruling in the 
25 Trump campaign's favor or for those votes counting.  1 
2 
3 Q 
A 
Q 64 
So it's your understanding that Mr. Jefferson prepared this for Mr. Troupis? 
Yes. That's my understanding. 
Do you know whether Mr. Troupis at this point in time had any input into 
4 the statement? 
5 A I don't --I don't think he had at that point. I think there was a separate 
6 email where Mr. Jefferson sent it to Mr. Schimming, who was sort of doing 
7 communications work with Mr. Troupis. And he looked at it. And then, based on the 
8 email records, it looks like Mr. Chesebro looked at it as well. 
9 Q In the proposed statement, the first sentence says: As the legal 
10 proceedings continue to work their way through the Wisconsin court system, I have 
11 advised the Republican Party of Wisconsin to convene a separate Republican electors' 
12 meeting and vote at the Wisconsin State capitol on December 14th. Do you see that? 
13 
14 A 
Q Yes. 
Do you know why only the Wisconsin court system is referenced in this 
15 proposed statement? 
16 A No. Our focus really was, though, on that recount in the Wisconsin case. 
17 As I --like I said before, the campaign --I don't think the campaign had filed that Federal 
18 case, and we weren't really significantly involved in it. And that Wisconsin recount and 
19 the Wisconsin Supreme Court case or the case that went to the Supreme Court was really 
20 what was driving us. 
21 Q And, in the second paragraph, mentioned: Of course, there is precedent 
22 for such a meeting. Democrats convened in Hawaii in 1960. 
23 What was your understanding of what happened in Hawaii in 1960, and 
24 understanding that I don't think you were there, but what you understand had 
25 happened?  65 
1 A No. Yeah. You know I --I mean --I haven't read the case since, you know, 
2 for over a year. I don't think anyway. I don't think I read it again when we had the 
3 election commission complaint. But my --you know, it was a case that was referenced 
4 by our lawyer. I looked at it. It seemed to be, you know, a similar situation and a 
5 precedent that was in place that, you know, really justified the Wisconsin electors 
6 meeting. This has happened before. And, you know, I don't know that I can go into 
7 the ins and outs of the legal case right now. But it was certainly one of the --one of the 
8 key aspects of kind of the legal advice that was given to us. 
9 Q And you mentioned it seemed similar to what was happening in Wisconsin. 
10 And I recognize this was a long time ago. Similar in what way? 
11 A Oh, sure. Just similar in that there was an election that was still in doubt, 
12 that --still in doubt and proceedings were ongoing. And that it made then sense to do 
13 this alternative elector meeting to prevent the complete waiver of the waiver if a court 
14 ruled in favor of that specific campaign. 
15 Q And I think you have already about talked this, but I just want to make sure 
16 the record is clear. When you say the election is in doubt, it's in doubt from your 
17 perspective in a sense that there was litigation about the results? 
18 A Yes. Correct. I'm sorry, yes. The litigation is what would cause --cause 
19 it to be in doubt. 
20 Q And if you look towards the bottom, I think it's the last sentence, it says: 
21 Given this and the legal arguments that have yet to be decided, the GOP electors shall 
22 also meet on Monday while we await a final resolution in Wisconsin. Do you see that? 
23 A Yes. 
24 Q And this might just be me not understanding the sentence and what it's 
25 trying to say, but do you think what "and the legal arguments that have yet to be  66 
1 decided," what that's in reference to? 
2 A I think it's in reference to the Wisconsin Supreme Court case. I suppose it 
3 can be in reference to the Federal cases as well or the federal litigation that was going on. 
4 But I think it's --I really do think it's just focused on the Wisconsin Supreme Court, the 
5 fact that they hadn't yet decided. And, even if they didn't rule in our favor, our 
6 understanding was they were going to appeal to the United States Supreme Court. 
7 Q And you respond to this, this email on December 9th at 7:45 p.m. --if you 
8 could go up --and you write: I am good. 
9 
10 What did you mean by "I am good"? 
A I just meant that I'm fine with the statement if --so the implication is go 
11 ahead and send it to Mr. Troupis for his review. 
12 Q Do you know whether the proposed statement was sent to Mr. Troup is for 
13 his review? 
14 A Yeah, I do. I believe it was. There are some other emails that --where I 
15 think Mr. Troupis even makes a couple edits to it. And then I --my belief is that it got 
16 canceled, or he wasn't allowed to send it because of the conference call with Rudy 
17 Giuliani that said no press, no heads up. 
18 Q Can you tell us a little bit more of what your understanding was of that 
19 conference call with Mr. Giuliani? 
20 A Yeah, my only understanding is from my text messages with Mark on 
21 December 12th in the afternoon, he asked me --well, I texted him about the --I think it 
22 might have texted him --no, I think he texted me about Chesebro wanting to meet, and 
23 asking if I wanted to join, and I said no, that he could let me know. And then he also 
24 then, I believe, kind of copied and pasted a message he got from Mr. Schimming to Mr. 
25 Jefferson that said he was on a conference call, or they were on a conference call with  1 Rudy G.; no, no press, no heads up regarding Monday, or something like that. 
2 Q Let's actually --we can turn to it just so it's clear in your mind. Let's go to 
3 exhibit 8. So back to it. Page 4. And exhibit 8 is, it starts with Bates 80, and page 4 
4 would be Bates 83. 
5 
6 A 
Q Okay. 
If you want to take a second to review the messages. I think this is what 
7 you were just referring to, if you look at --
8 
9 A 
Q Yeah. 
So why don't --on December 12th, at 1:47 p.m., Mr. Jefferson writes: 
10 Schimming is wanting me to talk with Ken Chesebro, who is sitting in their office. Any 67 
11 interest in being on the call? Re: Electors meeting. And whatever else. I don't think 
12 there is any particular concern, but it's still on no matter what, it appears. 
13 Did you join that conference call? 
14 
15 
16 
17 A 
Q 
A 
Q No, I did not. 
Okay. Do you know if Mr. Jefferson did? 
I don't think he did, but I don't know for certain. 
So a later message from Mr. Jefferson, he writes: Schimming: On the 
18 phone conf with Rudy G. He is saying to all States: no heads up to any media on electors 
19 meeting. 
20 You respond: These guys are up to no good, and it's going to fail miserably. 
21 Can you explain, you know, what you meant by "these guys are up to no good, and 
22 it's going to fail miserably"? 
23 A So, you know, for now we're going on, you know, well over a --probably well 
24 over month of repeated misstatements about what occurred in Wisconsin in the media by 
25 people like Rudy Giuliani. And now they're saying no media, no heads up. And to me, I  68 
1 just thought, you know, that just seemed like they are up to no good and that media 
2 certainly is going to find out about this. And you know what? We're going to do our 
3 own statement. So I know they're going to find out about it in Wisconsin, which is why I 
4 down below say: We can do whatever we want after and with us. We don't answer to 
5 them. 
6 Q Do you know whether there were other officials from different States on this 
7 conference call with Mr. Giuliani or if it was just like Schimming from Wisconsin? 
8 A I don't --I mean from the texts, it certainly looks like other States were on, 
9 but I don't --I don't know. 
10 Q 
11 meetings? 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
18 statement? 
19 A Were you ever told why Mr. Giuliani did not want any media on the elector 
No, I was not. 
Okay. But you all did put out a statement --is that right -­
Yes. 
--in connection with the meeting? 
Yes. 
Did you ever receive pushback or outreach asking why you put out a 
I did not. I don't know if Mark received any. Usually he would tell me if I 
20 did, but I don't know. 
21 Q Do you know if Mr. Schimming or anyone else pushed back against Mr. 
22 Giuliani when he said no media? 
23 
24 A 
Q I don't, no. 
Is there anything else you recall about this conference call --and I recognize 
25 you weren't a part of it this --but with Mr. Giuliani?  1 
2 
3 that? 
4 
5 A 
Q 
A 
Q 69 
No, this is all I knew of it. 
Okay. If you can go quickly to exhibit 12, and this is Bates 6. Can you see 
Yeah. 
So let's go down and you can see a forwarded message from Kenneth 
6 Chesebro to Judge Troupis, and others. And I think you mentioned earlier when you 
7 were preparing the documents for, you know, relevance and potential production to the 
8 select committee, you saw emails with Chesebro and Troupis. Is that one of the emails 
9 that you saw, but you didn't recall from before? 
10 
11 A 
Q Yes. 
So, if we go to the next page, Bates No. 7, page 2, so Mr. Chesebro says: 
12 Attached is a memo summarizing the requirements for casting electoral votes in the six 
13 contested States. 
14 Do you recall reviewing this message when you received it or the memo that Mr. 
15 Chesebro references? 
16 
17 A I don't believe that I did. 
this was sort of common for Mark: If you look at kind of the top of the string --and 
He has a thought. He hits forward. His thought 
18 when reading this is, hey, are we going to --should we have the electors see what they're 
19 going to sign? You know, based on --well, based on the time, you know, the time of 
20 day, it's like, you know, almost 10 o'clock at night, I'm sure I was reviewing --I'm sure I 
21 was looking at this on my phone. And I just looked at Mark's question and said yes. 
22 don't know if I looked at that memo from Mr. Chesebro. I don't recall looking at it. If I 
23 did, I certainly didn't spend much time on it because I don't recall reviewing it. 
24 
25 Q 
A Who is Brian Schimming? Do you know who he is? 
He --yes, yes, of course. He is long-time communications professional and  70 
1 political person in Wisconsin. He knows Mr. Troupis very well. They've done a number 
2 of recounts together. You know, Mr. Troupis is probably the preeminent guy in 
3 Wisconsin on election law and recounts, and, you know, he's very well respected. And 
4 Brian, Mr. Schimming, has done a lot of those recounts with him. And so he was 
5 brought on to help with sort of coordination and to be sort of a right hand to Mr. Troupis 
6 and to work on communications-type stuff and public affairs-type issues for Mr. Troupis 
7 during the recount. 
8 Q And did you have any direct communications with Mr. Schimming around 
9 the December 14th meeting? 
10 
11 A 
Q I don't recall having any, no. 
And, if we go down a bit on the page from the forwarded message, a little bit 
12 down further, a little bit more. 
13 
14 is? 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 You can see there is in the CC line an Austin Browning. Do you know who that 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A I do not. 
Okay. And Joseph Olson. Is that Mr. Olson we have talked about today? 
Yes. 
Was that the counsel for the Wisconsin Republican Party? 
Yes. 
And how about George Burnett, do you know who that is? 
Yeah, yeah, of course. He's also a lawyer in Wisconsin. Very well 
22 respected. Former State bar president. And he was, I believe, also retained by the 
23 Trump campaign along with Mr. Troupis to work on the recount. 
24 Q And I apologize, real quick. If we can go back again to the second page, 
25 Bates 7. On that last paragraph for Mr. Chesebro, he writes: With that information, I  71 
1 can draft papers similar to knows we now have for Wisconsin ready to be signed in the 
2 other five States (subject to careful review by key officials in those States). 
3 Do you know whether a careful review by so-called key officials was done in 
4 Wisconsin? 
No, I don't. I don't know what he would mean by "key officials," I guess. 5 
6 A 
Q At the time, did you have any understanding of what the other six contested 
7 States, as he puts it, were? 
8 A I don't know --well, what is the date of this? I certainly didn't based on 
9 kind of his because I wasn't working --I didn't really interact with him. So 
10 December 9th. 
11 Q That is right. 
12 A So it would be before --before the Pennsylvania chair called me. So I don't 
13 really think so. I was really not focused on the other States or following along what was 
14 going on there. I remember, you know --I remember thinking that if what I'm saying on 
15 national media is, is as inaccurate about the other States as it is about what they're saying 
16 about Wisconsin, then I don't know what's going on there. 
17 Q I am going to go to exhibit 13. This isn't something that you produced to 
18 us. I'm not sure if you've seen it. You can tell us whether you have you have or not. 
19 And this is a memo from Mr. Chesebro. That same date is December 9th, and it's to Mr. 
20 Troupis regarding statutory requirements for December 14th electoral votes. Do you 
21 remember ever reviewing this memo? 
22 A I've seen it since because it was in The New York Times like a couple of 
23 weeks ago. And I read that article. I think this is the memo that was, you know, in that 
24 email string, but I don't know for certain. I looked in my records actually specifically for 
25 the memo when I was doing the searches, and then I looked again after it was in The New  72 
1 York Times, but I don't seem to have it. 
2 Q So do you have any recollection and understanding --it's been a while --any 
3 recollection of ever reviewing this memo at the time around the end of December? 
4 A I don't think I did. And even if it was emailed to me, I may have popped it 
5 open on my phone or something like that, but I don't --I really do not remember 
6 spending any time with this. 
7 
8 
9 Q 
A 
Q Do you have any information as to why Mr. Chesebro prepared this memo? 
No, I do not. 
So I'm going to --let's go to exhibit 14. This is another memo prepared by 
10 Mr. Chesebro. And it's similar situation. I'm not sure if you've ever seen this. You 
11 can take a second to review it. It's a November 18th, 2020, memo regarding the real 
12 deadline for settling a State's electoral votes. Do you recall ever reviewing this memo? 
13 A Yeah, I don't think I did either. And now that you've pointed out both 
14 memos, I can't remember if it was this memo or the other one that was in The New York 
15 Times article. But I don't believe I ever received this one either. 
16 Q And just go to --maybe we'll go to page 4 real quick just to see if this 
17 refreshes your recollection in any way. If you go down a little bit. You can see there 
18 is --it actually talks, specifically, about Wisconsin. Do you remember ever reviewing a 
19 memo that talks about Wisconsin law for Mr. Chesebro? 
20 A Not for Mr. Chesebro. I was working really just with Mr. Olson. And, you 
21 know, it was pretty, pretty well into December before I even had heard the Chesebro 
22 name. 
23 Q And do you remember references to memos from Mr. Chesebro at the time, 
24 you know, in conversations? 
25 A No.  73 
1 Q Okay. And did you talk to --ever talk to Mr. Chesebro or Mr. Troupis about 
2 any memos that had been prepared regarding the alternate electors? 
3 A Yeah, Mr. --I never --the only thing --conversation I ever with Mr. Chesebro 
4 was on December 14th. So, you know, I don't think that I would have ever talked to 
5 him. That was just an introductory hello after I had asked who he was. And then I 
6 don't --I don't believe Mr. Troupis and I ever talked about this. I was talking to Mr. 
7 Olson. You know, I knew he was my lawyer. So, you know, Judge Troupis and I just --1 
8 don't recall having any conversations with him. 
9 Q You produced us with I think are almost like template or draft documents for 
10 the December 14th Republican Party elector meeting. Do you remember that? 
11 
12 
13 A 
Q 
A Yeah, I did have those in my --in my --my emails. 
Do you recall how you received them? 
No, I guess, I don't. I think --I think --I think it was via email but I --I don't. 
14 And it could have been in --it could have been in exhibits that were submitted in either 
15 briefs or complaints. 
16 
17 
18 Q 
A 
Q Do you recall who prepared those --those documents? 
I don't. I wasn't really involved in that aspect of it. 
We can pull up one of them, exhibit 15. This is Bates 34. And this is, it 
19 says: Page 1 of 2, How to Cast Electoral Votes in Wisconsin. 
20 
21 
22 
23 Do you recognize this document? 
A 
Q 
A Yes. 
Okay. So do you remember how you received this document? 
I think it was in --so I think this is the one that I actually didn't receive until 
24 February of 2021 when there was the complaint filed in the Wisconsin Elections 
25 Commission. And Mark forwarded --Mr. Jefferson forwarded an email to myself and  74 
1 Anna Kelly, who was our new communications director. She had started I believe in 
2 January. Maybe it was --maybe as early as February. I think it's February actually. 
3 And so Mark was forwarding this on to her because there was this complaint from the 
4 elections commission that we had to, you know, put out a statement or respond to media 
5 questions. So I don't believe I actually saw this until, you know, well after the fact. 
6 Q Okay. That's helpful. Thank you. So you're not sure who even prepared 
7 this document? 
8 A Well, I thought --well, I guess I'm not, but I thought from my review of the 
9 records it came from Mr. Chesebro. 
10 Q And go down to the bottom of this, understanding that you didn't receive 
11 this at the time not until later. The questions just about this last, I guess, bullet point, 
12 also preparing external FedEx envelopes addressed to this Trump campaign. Do you 
13 remember whether was actually done in connection with the December 14th meeting, 
14 sending the paperwork to the Trump campaign? 
15 
16 A 
Q I don't. I wasn't involved in the mailing or any of that. 
Do you have any understanding of who from the Trump campaign would 
17 have received any documentation from the December 14th meeting? 
18 
19 A 
Q I do not. 
So we've talked a bit about some Trump campaign individuals. And I just 
20 want to ask you a few other names to see if you had any conversations with them during 
21 the election period. Do you remember ever talking to a Justin Clark about the alternate 
22 elector meetings? 
23 A I know Justin a little bit. I don't believe so. It's not a phone number I 
24 have. We talked earlier in 2020 about the April 7th litigation, I think, mainly because we 
25 were both interviewed for 60 Minutes. But I don't --and they took him instead of me.  75 
1 That was going to be my claim to fame. So, yeah, I don't think so. 
2 Q Okay. I know you mentioned an Nick Trainer earlier, did you talk to him 
3 about the alternate elector meeting in 2020? 
4 A So Nick and I talked in --it's in my phone records --I think it was around 
5 December 5th, if I recall correctly. I don't recall what the conversation was about. It 
6 wouldn't be something that I would normally talk to him about. He was like a --I think 
7 his title was something like battleground strategy or something like that. I would talk to 
8 Mr. Trainer, you know, about surrogates, about memorabilia and getting it signed by the 
9 President, and I would talk to him when I had complaints about something the President 
10 was saying. 
11 Q What about Matt Morgan, while talking to him about the alternate elector 
12 meeting on December 14th? 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 A I don't think so. I don't think I know who that is. 
Q Okay. How about someone named Jenna Ellis? 
A No. I don't. I only recently have learned that name. 
Q What about a law professor named John Eastman? 
A No, I didn't talk to him, and I only recently learned of his name as well. 
Q Christina Bobb? You recognize that name? 
A No. 
Q Okay. Boris Epstein? 
A Again, no, but I have learned of his name recently. 
Q Bernard Kerik? 
A I know him from the New York City days of being the police commissioner, 
24 something like that. But that's it. 
25 Q And you mentioned Mike Roman, that phone call. Do you recall any other  76 
1 conversations with Mike Roman about the alternate elector meeting? 
2 A No, I think that --yeah, that was the only conversation I had with Mr. Roman 
3 about it. 
4 Q If you can turn to exhibit 16, which I believe is Bates 36. It's a little hard to 
5 see, but I think it's Bates 36. And this is something you produced, Mr. Hitt. 
6 
7 
8 
9 A Okay. 
Q Can you see that? 
A Yeah. 
Q So, if you go down a bit, this is --well, I think it's a template or a draft version 
10 of the Wisconsin Presidential Elector Official Ballot for President of the United States. 
11 Does that sound right? 
12 
13 A Yeah, I can see it, yeah. 
Q Okay. Do you recall any discussions prior to December 14th about this 
14 document? 
15 
16 A No, I wasn't involved in it, in the drafting of it, or anything. 
Q And you don't know who drafted it. You said maybe Mr. Chesebro, but 
17 you're not sure? 
18 
19 A Yeah, I don't know who drafted them. 
Q Do you recall if you actually, on December 14th, signed a document like this, 
20 like a ballot? 
21 A I don't think so. I think the only thing we signed was that --or those --were 
22 the memo. And then the memo and then the replacing of Tom Schreibel. 
23 Q So if we can turn to exhibit 20. I want to make sure what you're referring 
24 to, what was signed. This isn't the signed version, but this is just template of it, I think. 
25 Is this what you're referring to?  1 
2 A 
Q Yes. 
Okay. So this is the Certificate of the Votes of the 2020 Electors from 
3 Wisconsin, Bates 65, for the record. Do you remember any discussion about this 
4 certificate prior to December 14th? 
5 
6 A 
Q No, not really. 
Okay. Do you recall if it was --if you go up a little bit the top, it says, you 77 
7 know: We the undersigned, being the duly elected and qualified electors for President 
8 and Vice President of the United States of America, from the State of Wisconsin, do 
9 hereby certify the following. And then there's some language. Do you recall any 
10 discussions about making revisions to the statement that you all were duly elected and 
11 qualified electors? 
12 A No, we didn't really talk about it. At least, I didn't. 
13 Q Were you aware that in other States they revised the language on this page 
14 to include language referencing litigation that was ongoing to --you know, to suggest that 
15 they were, they were only duly elected in the event that the litigation changed what 
16 happened, the election results? Are you aware of that? 
17 A Yeah, not until after the fact. I mean, I wish we would have put it in there. 
18 I guess I was focused on our media statements, and the fact that my understanding was 
19 this --these didn't mean anything unless the court ruled so and unless a Governor, you 
20 know, sent the certificate of final determination. 
21 Q So you did not revise the language, but sitting here today you think --you 
22 wish you would have or would have known other States were doing that? 
23 
24 A 
Q Yeah, certainly. 
Do you recall, or do you know when you submitted --when the documents 
25 were submitted from the December 14th meeting, whether there was any letter  1 explaining the litigation that was ongoing in Wisconsin and the position that this was 
2 contingent for this electoral slate? 
3 A I don't think there was any letter, I think, pending. I mean, certainly, we 
4 had public statements, and I, you know, think it was well-known. But, no. 
Q 
A If we can to exhibit 17. This is also, I think, just a template and -­
Right. 78 
5 
6 
7 Q --and memorandum. And is this another document that you recall signing 
8 on December 14th? I think if you go down a bit, there's a certificate. 
9 
10 A Right. Yeah. I signed that. 
Q So it has four addresses. Do you know whether the documents were sent 
11 to these four addresses on the memo? 
12 
13 
14 A I believe they were. 
Q Do you recall who sent the paperwork? 
A Yeah, I think in the --I didn't at the time, but in reviewing the documents, I 
15 think Chaz Nichols (ph), who is a RPW staffer sent them. 
16 Q And do you recall any revisions to this --to this memo, this memorandum 
17 that we're looking at? 
18 
19 A I mean, the final would have had the RPW logo at the top of it. 
Q And, for any of the template documents, do you recall making any 
20 substantive revisions to them? 
21 
22 A No, I don't believe I saw them ahead of time. 
Q Okay. If we turn to the second page of this, page 2, Bates 50. It looks like 
23 another draft statement. It says: Draft language for WI Republican Party Re: 
24 December 14 Casting of Electoral Votes. Do you recall seeing this at the time? 
25 A I think this was the --I think this might be the longer statement that Mr.  79 
1 Jefferson ended up drafting, but I guess I --
Mr. Biskupic. What's the Bates number? 
BYMS.-: 2 
3 
4 Q Fifty. Five, zero. And definitely take a moment to review it so you can --if 
5 it refreshes your recollection. 
6 A Yeah, I mean, I don't remember, unless this matches that email that Mr. 
7 Jefferson sent me on 10 of December 13th. Here it is. Yeah, it looks to be the same. 
8 So this --well, I don't know where this one came from, I guess, I don't know. 
9 
10 
11 Q 
A 
Q Okay. 
Yeah. 
So you don't recall who drafted this statement? Because it does appear a 
12 little bit different. 
13 A Yeah, it is. It looks like --I'm sorry, I don't know. 
14 Q No problem. If you can turn back to exhibit 8. This is a chain with Mr. --a 
15 text message chain with Mr. Jefferson. So let's go to page 3, which would be Bates 82. 
16 And I think you might have referenced this conversation earlier. You said: I'm not sure 
17 what to do with this. And it appears to be a message you relayed to someone named 
18 Whitney Meyers, and this is December 11th, 2020. Do you recall this message? 
19 
20 
21 
22 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
23 message? 
24 
25 A 
Q Not from at the time, no. Not until I produced the documents. 
Do you know who Whitney Meyers is? 
No, I don't. 
Do you remember talking to Ms. Meyers at the time, after she sent you this 
Yeah, I don't believe I called her back. 
Okay. A part of her message is: In addition to needing to know the status  80 
1 on Wisconsin and the elector slate, we also need a prominent member of the Wisconsin 
2 legislature to put in an amicus brief in support of the Texas election SCOTUS filing. 
3 Do you recall anything about this amicus brief in support of this SCOTUS filing? 
4 
5 A 
Q No, I don't. I'm not even sure what that litigation was. 
And you don't know Ms. Meyers --why she would want to know about the 
6 electors slate in Wisconsin? 
7 
8 A 
Q No, I don't. 
Okay. And I know you mentioned a Brian Jack, and you said you never 
9 talked to President Trump. Do you ever recall talking to Mark Meadows about the 
10 alternate electors slate from this time period? 
11 A Yeah, the only time I ever saw Mr. Meadows was at a Trump rally. But, I 
12 mean, he was like walking down the fence line, if you will, or whatever you would call it. 
13 
14 
15 him. 
16 
17 
18 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q And how about a Peter Navarro? 
No, never. I know the name from the news, but, no, I have never talked to 
Stephen Miller? 
No. 
For the December 14th meeting, I see references to recordings. Do you 
19 recall if it was recorded by video or otherwise? 
20 A Yes, somebody did record it. We were to have a video of it, but I don't 
21 know where it is or who did it even. 
22 Q Okay. Let's go to page 8 of this same exhibit, which would be the exhibit 8, 
23 page 8, Bates 87. So continuation with Mr. Jefferson. And in that second message, 
24 you appeared to relay a message from someone named Tommy Hicks. Do you see that? 
25 A Yes.  81 
1 Q Okay. So, in the message that was sent to you by Mr. Hicks, he says: 
2 Governor Perry introduced me to a Texas businessman (John Robinson) who's data expert 
3 (self-funding I believe) who's trying do something that proves through statistics and 
4 painting a narrative in Ml, AZ, WI, GA. 
5 So I believe Michigan, Arizona, Wisconsin, and Georgia. Do you recall this 
6 message? 
7 A 
8 it. 
9 Q 
10 sent to you? 
11 
12 
13 
14 A 
Q 
A 
Q No not --I mean not from the time, I had just been refreshed as I produced 
Okay. Did you ever talk to Mr. Hicks in connection with this message he 
I don't think so. He is the co-chair of the Republican National Committee. 
Okay. Did you ever talk to this John Robinson who's referenced? 
No, I did not. 
Were you at the time aware of efforts to try to prove election fraud through 
15 statistics at --election fraud throughout the country through like data statisticians. Do 
16 you remember any efforts about that? 
17 
18 A 
Q I remember reading about it in the news, but that's about it. 
In the text, he mentions Wisconsin, are you aware of any efforts like that in 
19 Wisconsin, specifically? 
20 
21 
22 A 
Q 
A No, I don't think so. 
Did you do anything in connection with this text message? 
Well, I mean I sent it to Mark, yeah, but that's, but that's it. I don't know 
23 if --I don't know if, whichever person was supposed to call him, if they did. It looks it 
24 like may be Shafer. 
25 Q Okay. From Georgia?  1 
2 A 
Q 
3 Wisconsin? 
4 
5 
6 that is? 
7 A 
Q 
A Yeah. Or wherever he is. Yeah, for the work he did in Georgia, it says. 
But you're not sure if anything happened in connection with this in 
Yeah, Mark never said anything about it, so I sort of doubt it. 82 
Mr. Jefferson references someone named Bob Spindel!. Do you know who 
Yeah, he is also an elector and is kind of a long-time activist. He is the chair 
8 of the Fourth Congressional District for Republicans. 
9 Q Do you know if Mr. Jefferson talked to Mr. Spindel! specifically about this 
10 message from Mr. Hicks and this data statistician? 
11 A I don't think they're related, so I think that's --I think that's about the elector 
12 meeting. He says: I talked to Bob Spindel!. He's open to whatever we decide. I'm 
13 going to send a text message out to everybody now. 
14 I think he is referring to the electors. And I think --I think what he is referring to, 
15 he is open to whichever we decide, whether or not Bob and I would go a little bit earlier 
16 than everybody else. 
17 Q Okay. And, in that message from Mr. Hicks, he said, I think this is 
18 important for Jan 6. Do you know what he was referring to, what would be important? 
19 
20 A 
Q Yeah, I don't. 
Let's see. And you later write: Clearly, there is some big plan in the works 
21 with all the States still doing elector meetings. I believe you were talking about that 
22 earlier, right? You became aware that meetings were happening in other States at the 
23 same time? 
24 
25 A 
Q Right. Right. 
Did you have any understanding of how --what the elector meetings related  1 to trying to prove, you know, it says "prove through statistic and painting a narrative in 
2 Michigan, Arizona, Wisconsin, and Georgia" how those related? 
3 
4 A 
Q No, I don't. 
Okay. Let's get to December 14th. Do you remember what your 
5 expectations were for that day and the potential significance of your meeting? 83 
6 A I guess we really just thought that, unless a court ruled, the meeting was sort 
7 of irrelevant and meaningless. The court would have to rule in the Trump campaign's 
8 favor. And then, I think, as I said before, the Governor would have to send a new 
9 certificate of final determination for it to mean anything. 
10 Q And can you talk us through just really from kind of beginning to end your 
11 day on December 14th, you know, beginning with where you met everyone and maybe 
12 where you went to next? 
13 A Yeah, we met everybody at the Republican Party of Wisconsin, which is just 
14 down the street from the capitol. I don't know, three blocks away. And then we kind 
15 of just assembled in the conference room and just waited there until it was time to go, to 
16 go to the capitol. We drove up to the capitol. We went into the capitol into the 
17 conference room. I know we went up an elevator, but I don't remember which 
18 necessarily floor or room it was on. I think we were only there about 10 minutes 
19 maybe. It was a very quick. We came in, did what we were supposed to do, and then 
20 we left, and then, after that, everybody --went back to RPW, and then everybody went 
21 home. 
22 Q So, just to take it step by step, did you all drive to or drive to the capitol all in 
23 one vehicle or separate vehicles? 
24 A No, yeah, we wouldn't have been able to fit in all one vehicle. I think we 
25 took a couple, two or three.  84 
1 Q And I've heard reports that at least some electors, Republican Party electors, 
2 had issues getting into the capitol that day. Do you remember anything about that? 
3 A I think this was, you know, pretty --this was during COVID, and the capitol 
4 was still not, not open to the public. So --but the legislature was still meeting, and 
5 people were still in there. So you just had --the door had to be open for you. 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 recall? Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A And so did someone open the door for the Republican Party electors? 
Yes. 
Do you remember who opened the door? 
I think it was Heather Smith, but I don't know for certain. 
And who is Heather Smith? 
She worked in the building as a legislature staffer. 
And was that --
She is a Isa --
Oh, excuse me, you can go. 
She is also Mr. Jefferson's girlfriend. 
Oh, okay. Is she a staffer for a Republican member in the legislature, if you 
Yeah, at that time, she was for Pat Testin.  85 
1 
2 [1:07 p.m.] 
3 BY MS 
4 Q Okay. And do you remember what --because my understanding is the 
5 meeting began around noon. Is that right? 
6 A Yeah, I think that's right. 
7 Q Okay. So do you remember what time you all got to the actual capitol 
8 building? 
A I think it was like shortly before noon, like maybe 11:55. 
Q And did you have security with you when you arrived? 
A Oh, yeah. Yep. The RNC provided security service. 9 
10 
11 
12 Q Okay. And did you all come in together or --into the capitol building itself 
13 or --you know, kind of tell us how that --how that went, actually getting into the 
14 building. 
15 A Yeah. No. We just got out of the vehicles and walked into the building 
16 and then took the elevator up. I think we --I don't recall if --I don't think everybody 
17 probably fit in one elevator. They're fairly small there. So we waited for everybody to 
18 get up there, and then --and then we did our --did our meeting. 
19 Q Did you see any press when you arrived at the capitol building, that you can 
20 recall? 
21 A Yeah. No, I don't think so. I know that --I know that Mark talked to some 
22 reporters on --on the way there. 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A 
Q Do you recall if you were allowed to bring cell phones into the meeting? 
Yeah. Well, I think we were. I don't remember not bringing a cell phone. 
Do you remember if you saw the Democratic Party electors at the capitol  86 
1 that day? 
A Yeah, we didn't. We didn't see really anybody else. 2 
3 Q And aside from the Republican Party electors and security, who do you recall 
4 being in the actual meeting room with you? 
5 A Yeah. I think it was just Mark Jefferson, Alec Zimmerman, and I'm pretty 
6 sure Chesebro --Mr. Chesebro was there. 
7 Q And do you know why Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Zimmerman were at the 
8 meeting? 
9 A I mean, just one. I mean, Mr. Jefferson had seen several of these, so just, I 
10 guess, staff support. 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 years? Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q And when you say "seen several of these," you mean just in prior election 
Correct. 
Okay. And so he knew, like, the procedure and how they went? 
That's right. 
Okay. And what about Zimmerman? Just for support staff? 
Yeah, I think so, yeah. 
Okay. And I think I've seen some messages about it. Any idea why 
19 Mr. Chesebro came that day? 
20 A No. Mark, I don't think, was very happy about it. He did --he didn't 
21 really --I think he said Mr. Chesebro invited himself, and --but I don't --I don't know --I 
22 don't really know why he was there. 
23 
24 Q 
A 
25 guy was. Do you recall if he said anything during the meeting? 
I don't think he did. I --I think it was there that I had to ask who --who this  1 Q Okay. So is it fair to say he didn't really have a substantive role in the 
2 meeting? 
3 
4 
5 
6 A No. I mean, it was really short. 
Q Okay. 
A We just came in, did the vote, signed, and then left. 
Q Okay. Who --do you recall who collected the paperwork after the 
7 meeting? 87 
8 A I --I don't. I --I --I think I put it together and I handed it to somebody, and 
9 that was --I think that was the last I ever saw it. 
10 Q So you don't recall being the person in charge of the paperwork and having 
11 to mail anything? 
12 
13 A Oh, no, I did not. 
Q I know that --I understand there was a secretary for --who was appointed 
14 for purposes of the December 14th meeting. Is that right? 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 A Yes. 
Q Do you know who decided who would be a secretary for the meeting? 
A I --no. I --I don't. I mean --
Q Okay. 
A --if I had --if I had to guess, I would guess that it was Mark and I just asked 
20 Kelly if she would be the secretary. 
21 
22 
23 Q 
A Do you recall what the secretary's role was on that day during the meeting? 
I think her only role was to sit next to me. 
Q Okay. All right. So she didn't have to prepare any remarks or take official 
24 notes of the meeting? 
25 A I don't rem---1 don't recall her saying anything, and I don't recall her --if she  88 
1 did, I don't --I don't recall it. 
2 
3 
4 
5 Q Okay. So it sounds like it was just more of a ceremonial title or ceremonial 
role? Okay. 
A 
Q Right. 
Uh-huh. Okay. And if we go to exhibit 22, I just want to confirm that this 
6 was the document that you --you all signed on December 14th, or a copy of it. And this 
7 is Bates 96. So if you go down to page 2, Bates 97. 
8 
9 
10 Does this look like the document that you all signed on December 14th? 
A Yes. 
Q Okay. And then you said --if we can go to exhibit 23, which you also 
11 produced. And this is Bates 95. 
12 I believe this is a certificate of filling vacancy of the 2020 electors from Wisconsin. 
13 Is this what you were referring to earlier that you had to replace one of the electors? 
14 
15 
16 right? 
17 
18 
19 A Correct. 
Q Okay. And you had to replace Mr. Schreibel with Kathy Kiernen. Is that 
A Correct. 
Q Okay. And how was it decided who would replace Mr. Schreibel? 
A She --she was the --well, we needed somebody from the Fifth Congressional 
20 District, and she is the chair of the Fifth Congressional District. 
21 
22 
23 Q Okay. Do you recall any issues that happened at --at the meeting? 
A No. It was very quick. 
Q Okay. And you said you don't --you don't know what happened with the 
24 signed paperwork. It sounds like that was someone else's job. 
25 A Correct.  89 
1 Q Okay. Oh, another person I did not ask earlier. Do you ever recall talking 
2 to someone named Peter McGinnis in connection with the alternate electors? 
3 
4 A 
Q 
5 did you do? No. 
Let's go to --so immediately after the December 14th meeting, what --what 
6 A We went back to RPW and, you know, everybody --everybody started to go 
7 home. I think I --I started to go home as well, and then we had that conference call that 
8 Ryan Terrill had asked for the day before around 2 --1 or 2 o'clock. And then --and that 
9 was it. I think I did that call on my way home. 
10 Q We can turn to that real fast. Exhibit 32, that's Bates 17. 
11 
12 A 
Q Okay. 
Just to make sure we're on the same page here. 
13 Does this look like the call that you --or an invitation to the call you were just 
14 referring to? 
15 
16 A 
Q Yes. 
Okay. So what do you remember about what was discussed during 
17 this --this so-called check-in call after the meeting of the electors on December 14th? 
18 A I really don't remember much about it. In fact, I didn't even remember it 
19 occurred until I was, you know, going through the records production. I think it was --I 
20 don't know. I think it was a pretty --pretty quick call. 
21 Q Okay. So you can see on the --at least the list of invitees, there's a 
22 Mike Roman from the Trump campaign, G. Michael Brown from the Trump campaign, and 
23 then copied is Peter McGinnis from the Trump campaign. 
24 Do you remember any --any comments or any --anything that these members of 
25 the Trump campaign said during this call?  1 
2 A 
Q I'm sorry, I don't, no. 
And what did you say --I think you mentioned earlier an Andrew Iverson. 
3 What do you recall about his involvement in the alternate elector meeting? 90 
4 A I don't think he had much of a role. He was the State director for --for the 
5 RNC or Trump campaign, and, you know, he was pretty involved in the recount, especially 
6 like --excuse me --recruiting volunteers and that kind of thing, but I don't really 
7 remember much of a role in the alternative elector meeting. 
8 Q Okay. So if you go to exhibit 25, this is Bates 109. And I believe this is the 
9 statement that you released on December 14th after the meeting. Does that look right? 
10 
11 
12 Want to go down a little? 
A 
Q Yeah. 
All right. I think you said earlier that the proposed statement that was 
13 going to be from Mr. Troupis, that was canceled after the call with Mr. Giuliani. Is that 
14 right? 
15 
16 A 
Q I --I believe that's what triggered the cancellation of it, yes. 
But you still went forward with --with this, you know, I would say, you know, 
17 one-sentence statement, much briefer statement. Is that right? 
18 
19 
20 A 
Q 
A 
21 we did it. 
22 Q Correct. 
Okay. 
I thought it was really important to explain and put out what we did and why 
Do you remember receiving any push back or outreach from anyone from the 
23 RNC or Trump campaign after you released this statement? 
24 A I did not. If Mark did, he didn't convey it to me, and normally he would. 
25 Q Okay. And when you drafted this --or when you released this statement,  91 
1 what were the --to you, what was your understanding of the --the legal options still left 
2 for Wisconsin? 
3 A Specifically, it would have been the appeal to the United States Supreme 
4 Court. So in the morning of December 14th, I don't know, I think around 10 or 11, the 
5 Wisconsin Supreme Court ruled 4-3 against the Trump campaign. I knew that and had 
6 been told that the campaign was planning to apply --appeal --sorry --to the United 
7 States Supreme Court, and that's what that would have referred to. 
8 Q Okay. So, mainly, this --what you understood would be the appeal to the 
9 U.S. Supreme Court, that litigation? 
10 
11 
12 A 
Q 
A Right. 
Okay. 
Which is --which ended up being a very close case. It was a 4-3 decision, 
13 and Justice Hagedorn, you know, kind of relied upon some --a laches argument that, you 
14 know, I really thought had the potential to be overturned at the United States Supreme 
15 Court. It was a very unusual legal theory to rely upon. 
16 Q And I understand that at least one aspect --they did get to the merits on one 
17 of the arguments about what --the indefinitely confined claim. 
18 Do you remember that? 
19 
20 
21 A 
Q I --I mean, a little bit, yes. 
Okay. Let's go to exhibit 27. And this is Bates 92. 
These are text messages between you and someone named Alec. Do you 
22 recognize that? 
23 A Yeah. That's been in the --the person that was in the meeting and then the 
24 person that was on some of those emails. 
25 Q Mr. Zimmerman? Is that right?  92 
1 A Correct. 
2 Q Okay. Good. And if you look down --if you go back down a 
3 bit --December 14th, I think it's at 2:12 p.m. --it's a little cut off. Is this all part of the 
4 same chain, do you remember? 
A No. No. The green --
Q Uh-huh. 5 
6 
7 A --that you're looking at right now, that was from another colleague of mine. 
8 That was from a work colleague of mine. 
9 Q Okay. That makes more sense. 
10 Who's the --who do you --for the green, who's the work colleague, if you 
11 remember? 
12 
13 
14 
15 A Oh, Rob Marchant. 
Q And a work colleague at your law firm or at the Wisconsin GOP? 
A Yep. Nope. At Michael Best. Sorry. 
Q Ah, okay. So do you recall when this text message was sent? So I ask 
16 because, in your message, you say: "Well, electoral college was yesterday." 
17 
18 
19 So do you think this happened after December 14th, this message? 
A 
Q Yeah. I think it --yeah, I think it was the 15th. 
I see. Okay. So you --in your second message, you write: It's honestly 
20 sucking the life out of me and I have pulled way back. Hardly involved, but I'm getting 
21 destroyed by the right. Just trying to walk a fine line. 
22 Can you just explain for us, you know, what --what you are trying to convey 
23 to --to your work colleague, Rob, in this message? 
24 A Yeah. Sure. I mean, it was --you know, it was not a fun time to be 
25 Republican Party of Wisconsin chairman. You're getting, you know, hit, if you will, and  93 
1 criticized from, you know, the left, or from --from Democrats. But I was getting equally 
2 criticized and hit, if you will, from --from Republicans. 
3 And, you know, I was conveying to him that, you know, this is --it's sucking the life 
4 out of me. This is absolutely miserable. And I, you know, had pulled way back. I was 
5 not, you know, really involved in --in the recount and --and the things that were going 
6 on. 
7 Q Do you recall whether you were still getting, I guess, by your words, 
8 destroyed or pushback even after the alternate elector meeting on December 14th? 
9 A Actually, I think more pushback came after December 14th probably than 
10 before. I would say it was a --more of a steady growing buildup. And, you know, at 
11 that time, this --the court cases were still alive. 
12 Q Do you recall what the push back was about, I mean, once you've --once it 
13 was later in December 2020? 
14 A Yeah. I mean, it --it was pretty much the same throughout, people 
15 asserting that we didn't do anything, that we didn't stop the election fraud that was going 
16 on, that we should have brought the legal cases earlier because the --you know, the 
17 Supreme Court had relied on laches, basically saying you had waived the argument 
18 because you brought it too late, those types of things. 
19 I got specifically criticized for not filing any lawsuits of --regarding Democracy in 
20 the Park, which is something they did in Madison. It's not necessarily my role --or, you 
21 know, I could have, but not going to --I don't have an endless supply of money, and I 
22 specifically referred it to the Trump campaign, and they said, no, we're not going to file 
23 any action on it. 
24 So it was frustrating to me that, you know, I was getting criticized from --from 
25 people when I --when the Trump campaign declined to file any action.  94 
1 Q And sorry. And I apologize. I'm not familiar. What is Democracy in the 
2 Park? 
3 A Yeah. So, in Wisconsin, it had to do with ballot drop boxes, and basically 
4 they were --in the city of Madison, they were doing --they were doing absentee ballot 
5 collection in --in the park. They --they could not --they could not --they couldn't do 
6 certain things, but they could collect the ballots if somebody had already requested one, I 
7 believe it was. And so that's what was going on. 
8 Q And --and you --you did not file your own lawsuit about that, and you said 
9 you talked to the Trump campaign, and they declined to as well, for at least Madison, I 
10 think you said? 
11 
12 A Yeah. Right. 
Q Okay. Let's go back to page --or excuse me --exhibit 8 with Mr. Jefferson, 
13 the text chain. And if we go to page 11, which I believe is Bates 90. 
14 
15 A Uh-huh. 
Q Okay. I believe these are text messages from January 4th, 2021. Do you 
16 see that? Okay. 
17 A Yep. 
18 Q So Mr. Jefferson writes to you: Freaking Trump idiots want someone to fly 
19 original elector papers to the Senate President. They're gonna call one of us to tell us 
20 just what the hell is going on. They talked to Jordan. I told Jordan to tell them that. 
21 What do you remember about the --you know, this message from Mr. Jefferson, 
22 what was --what the Trump --I presume the Trump campaign was asking? 
23 A Well, I had wrote back to him that I had thought I had gotten a missed call 
24 from Mike Roman --this is at night too. This is like 9 o'clock at night --and that 
25 somebody else had texted me. I asked him if --if they already --or if he had talked to  95 
1 them already, and said, you know, this is --I just said, this is kind of nuts, you know, 
2 that --that they would --that they would need this. Like, how disorganized are they 
3 that they would have to ask for this now? 
4 Q Did you ever hear why they wanted someone to fly the original elector 
5 papers to --to Congress? 
6 A It sounds like they --sounds like the Senate President's Office had not 
7 received the elector papers, even though --even though the tracking number said they 
8 had received them. 
9 Q So is it your understanding they --they wanted someone to fly the papers 
10 because it didn't seem like the papers had been at least acknowledged by the Senate 
11 President's Office? 
12 A Yeah. I mean, that's --I never talked to Mr. Roman or anybody, but that's 
13 certainly what it seemed like. 
14 Q Do you know why --you know, at this point, it's December 4th --why this 
15 was needed --
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 Mr.. January. 
Ms.- Yeah. For Jan---excuse me. For January 4th. 
BYMS.-: 
Q --why this was needed for January 6th, you know, 2 days before? 
A No, I didn't. Beyond that, it seemed like maybe our paperwork hadn't been 
21 there. I know --I knew that the campaign had just --you know, they filed 
22 December 29th, that petition, in the United States Supreme Court. I believe it was 
23 around January 2nd or 3rd --maybe it was like the 3rd that they filed for expedited 
24 review in the United States Supreme Court. 
25 So I didn't know if, you know, this was --the Supreme Court was about to rule.  1 didn't know if --you know, if --if they didn't --if the Senate President's Office didn't get 
2 the alternative electors, or if this was just complete dysfunction on the part of the 
3 campaign. It --you know, as Mark and I said, it just --it's silly. It doesn't make any 
4 sense. It's just --just kind of nonsense. 
5 
6 
7 Q 
A 
Q 
8 message. Did you ever call Mr. Roman back? 
No, I did not. 
Do you recall who the text was from? You referenced a text in your 96 
9 A I think it was somebody who worked for Mr. Roman. Because I don't have 
10 the number in my phone, I'm not able to, like, scroll back and get it. If I remember 
11 correctly, it was --it was somebody that was working with Roman and said that he had 
12 just called. 
13 
14 Q Okay. But you didn't call that person back, that you can recall? 
A No. I looked at my phone --yeah. I looked at my phone records and I 
15 don't have a call. 
16 Q Do you know whether Mr. Jefferson talked to Mr. Roman or anyone else 
17 from the Trump campaign in connection with this? 
18 A I don't know. It looks like Jordan might have. He was the political 
19 director of the Republican Party of Wisconsin. But I don't --I don't know for certain. 
20 Q And is that Perryman [ph]? Is that Jordan Perryman? 
21 A Nope. That's somebody else. If you go to the top text message, it says: 
22 They talked to Jordan --
23 
24 
25 Q Oh, yes. 
A --and I told Jordan to tell them that. 
That's who --that's who I was referring to.  97 
1 Q Okay. Do you --do you know whether anyone from the Trump campaign 
2 flew to D.C. to deliver original elector papers to the Senate President's Office? 
3 A I believe an RPW staffer did, but then the --if --my understanding is 
4 the --the doc---the paperwork that we sent out had been received. So I don't --I don't 
5 think anything ever came of it. 
6 Q So they flew out, but then the paper had already been received, so it didn't 
7 even matter? 
8 
9 
10 
11 A 
Q 
A 
Q Correct. 
Do you --do you remember who the RPW staffer was who flew? 
I think it --I'm pretty sure it was Alesha Guenther. 
And she flew --is it your understanding she flew because the Trump 
12 campaign wanted someone to deliver the papers? 
13 
14 A 
Q Correct. 
Okay. Do you know what day she flew to D.C.? 
15 A I --I believe it was January 5th. 
16 Q Okay. And I think we talked about this a little bit before briefly in the 
17 beginning. Do you recall a theory that was reportedly advocated by individuals 
18 associated with the Trump campaign where Vice President Pence, as the President of the 
19 Senate, if presented with dueling slates of electors, could pick which slate of electors to 
20 count on January 6th during the joint session? 
21 A I mean, I never talked to anybody about that, that I recall. And it certainly 
22 would have directly conflicted with what our legal counsel was telling us. He had 
23 indicated that basically these --what we're doing --the documents are meaningless 
24 unless a court would rule in their favor and the Governor would send that certificate. 
25 Q Did anyone ever tell you that if Wisconsin sent an alternate slate of electoral  98 
1 votes for Trump and Pence, that Vice President Pence, on January 6th, could use the fact 
2 that there was this second slate as justification to delay counting during the joint session 
3 on January 6th? 
4 
5 A 
Q No, I don't believe so. 
Would that, in your words, have also conflicted with the advice that you had 
6 provided --you were provided by your legal counsel? 
7 A Yeah, it would have directly conflicted. I mean, we were told very 
8 specifically that these documents are meaningless unless the court rules. Only if a court 
9 says they mean something would they mean something. And that was from my RPW 
10 counsel, though. 
11 Q Do you recall talking to any members of the Wisconsin State legislature 
12 about your --about the alternate elector vote on December 14th? 
13 
14 
15 A 
Q 
A I don't think --you mean before December 14th? 
Before or after, but after election day. 
Okay. Before? No, I don't --1 don't think so. And, gosh, you know, I 
16 don't even think we talked after about it. I mean, after --after the December 14th 
17 meeting, I mean, it sort of just seemed to all go away. 
18 Q Did you talk to --aside from Senator Johnson, do you recall talking to any 
19 Members of Congress about the alternate elector vote, either before or after 
20 December 14th? 
21 
22 A 
Q No, I don't believe I did. 
How about Vice President Pence or his staff, do you ever recall talking to him 
23 about the alternate electoral slate from Wisconsin? 
24 A Yeah. No, I never --never had the opportunity to talk to the Vice President 
25 or --or his staff.  99 
1 Q So going into January 6th, 2021, did you have any expectation that the --you 
2 know, the purported electoral votes that the Republican Party had cast would be counted 
3 by Vice President Pence during the joint session? 
4 
5 A 
Q Again, only if a court --only if the United States had ruled that way before. 
Okay. And --and to your --best of your recollection, did they on 
6 January 6th, or before? 
7 A No. They --no, no. I believe it was February 22nd when they finally 
8 denied cert of that Wisconsin recount case. 
9 Q Okay. So --which, in effect, meant that Joe Biden was the winner of the 
10 popular vote in Wisconsin? 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A Yes, absolutely. 
Okay. 
Yes, that's correct. 
Okay. And where were you on --on January 6th? 
I was in Florida. There was a Republican National Committee had their 
16 winter meeting, so --oh, it was not Jacksonville, but Jacksonville, like the --whatever that 
17 island is off the coast there is where I think --where our meeting was. 
18 Q And do you have any information relating to --to the attack on the Capitol 
19 that day? 
20 
21 
22 A I do not. 
Q Okay. Okay. 
Ms.- Well, I think we're --we're done here, Mr. Hitt. Thank you so 
23 much for your time today. 
24 Mr.~ So you know the kinds of things we're interested in. Is there 
25 anything else that we should know that we haven't asked about yet?  100 
1 The Witness. Not that I can think of, but if I think of anything, I will --I'll talk to 
2 Steve. We'll let you know. We'll --I'll look at the social media stuff. And, of course, if 
3 you have any other questions, please let us know. 
4 
5 Mr.- Great. 
Ms. - All right. Well, really appreciate your time, Mr. Hitt. And I 
6 know it was --you were asked a lot of questions, so we appreciate your patience going 
7 through all the documents and also for --for your production. It's been helpful today. 
8 You know, if anything comes up, we'll --we'll reach out to your counsel. And as 
9 you just said, if you happen to see anything, any relevant information in any of your social 
10 media messages, if you can provide that, we would appreciate that. 
11 With that being said, we can conclude this deposition. It's 1:38 p.m. Eastern 
12 time. We can go off the record. 
13 [Whereupon, at 1:38 p.m., the deposition was recessed, subject to the call of the 
14 chair.]  1 
2 
3 Certificate of Deponent/Interviewee 
4 I have read the foregoing __ pages, which contain the correct transcript of the 
5 answers made by me to the questions therein recorded. 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 Witness Name 
Date 101 