1. The conclusions in the Allied Security Operations Group (ASOG) Antrim Michigan Forensics 
Report (the ASOG Report) are suspect because they describe voting products and software 
versions that Antrim County does not use and otherwise rely on thin or mischaracterized 
evidence. 
a. Software Version. The ASOG report inaccurately describes the operating system, 
antivirus, and security updates (i.e., WSUS version) for the Antrim County voting system 
as being out of date. However, Antrim County uses Dominion Voting System's (DVS) 
Democracy Suite (D-Suite) 5.5 voting system1 as it was certified by the United States 
(U.S.) Election Assistance Commission (EAC) on September 14, 2018. 2 The D-Suite 5.5 
system was up to date for the version certified by the EAC. 
b. Adjudication Claims. The ASOG report claims that there was an issue with the 
adjudication application software in EMS are a red herring. Antrim County does not use 
the adjudication software application in question, and does not have compatible 
systems. 
c. Forensic Logs. The ASOG report also claims impropriety due to a lack of adjudication 
forensic logs. However, because, as noted above, Antrim County does not use the 
adjudication software, the lack of related logs is expected. 
d. High Error Rate. The ASOG report suggests that scanned ballots that were designated, 
or alerted, for further review is evidence of an abnormally high "error rate." This is 
generalization is not supported. When hand-marked paper ballots are scanned by a 
machine, the machine will alert election officials to things like write-in voting, damaged 
ballots, overvotes, undervotes, and stray marks. The screenshots of logs and file settings 
shown in the ASOG report only appear to be evidence of situations where the machine 
performed the intended processes based on the configuration settings. 
e. Ranked Choice Voting. The ASOG report inaccurately suggests that Ranked Choice 
Voting may have been enabled on the D-Suite voting system. However, the version of 
the D-Suite voting system used by Antrim County (v. 5.5) does not support ranked 
choice voting. The ASOG report actually provides a screenshot of a different D-Suite 
version (v. 5.11). 
2. The ASOG report demonstrates key misunderstandings about the current voting system 
certification process to the US EAC's Voluntary Voting System Guidelines,3 and suggests some 
non-existent provisions within the Help America Vote Act. 
3. The conclusions in the ASOG report do not appear to be supported by the recent hand recount 
in Antrim County Michigan. Voters in Antrim County voted on paper ballots, and by court order 
those ballots were reviewed and recounted, by hand. Independent of the D-Suite voting 
system, the hand recount appears to have returned consistent results.4 
1 The D-Suite 5.5 voting system is comprised of multiple software, hardware, and firmware components. The back­
end computer server system, known as the Election Management System (EMS), is a suite of multiple independent 
software applications. Antrim County only uses a subset of the EMS software applications. 
2 https://www.eac.gov/sites/default/files/voting_system/files/DSuite55_CertConf_Scope%28FINAL%29.pdf (last 
accessed on December 15, 2020) 
3 https://www.eac.gov/sites/default/files/eac_assets/1/28/VVSG.1.0_Volume_1.PDF (last accessed on December 
15, 2020) 
4 Hendrickson, Clara and Paul Egan, "Antrim County hand tally affirms certified election results." Detroit Free Press. 
Dec. 17, 2020.  The Allied Security Operations Group Antrim Michigan Forensics Report draws conclusions from thin 
evidence and descriptions of software Antrim County does not own, for versions of the software that 
are not compatible with the version of the voting system Antrim County owns and would require 
hardware Antrim County does not have. 
• Claims of impropriety through software adjudication in the Election Management Software are 
not relevant, as Antrim County does not use the software application in question, and does not 
have compatible systems, mainly the for this adjudication software, mainly the lmageCast 
Central Tabulator. 
• Implications that a lack of forensic logs for processes that Antrim County does not and cannot 
use are evidence of an untrustworthy process are unsupportable. If Antrim Co does not and 
cannot use software Adjudication, the lack of digital logs for software adjudication is to be 
expected. 
• Suggesting that scanned ballots that were designated, or alerted, for further review is evidence 
of an abnormally high "error rate" is false and misleading. When hand-marked paper ballots are 
scanned by a machine, the machine will alert election officials to things like write-in voting, 
damaged ballots, overvotes, undervotes, and stray marks. 
• Speculation of that any findings reflect that Ranked Choice Voting may have been enabled is not 
supportable when the systems in question in Antrim County, Dominion Voting System's (DVS) 
Democracy Suite (D-Suite) 5.5 do not have that Ranked Choice Voting capability- the 
screenshot provided is for D-Suite 5.11. 
The report also demonstrates a callous misunderstanding of the actual current voting system 
certification process to the US Election Assistance Commission's Voluntary Voting System Guidelines, a 
misunderstanding of elections infrastructure as critical infrastructure, and posits non-existent provisions 
within the Help America Vote Act. 
Most importantly, voters in Antrim County, Michigan, voted on paper ballots. Those records are being 
reviewed and recounted, by hand. This verification, independent of the software and hardware systems 
in question, will be most indicative of the trustworthiness of the systems.  The Allied Security Operations Group Antrim Michigan Forensics Report draws conclusions from thin 
evidence and descriptions of software Antrim County does not own, for versions of the software that 
are not compatible with the version of the voting system Antrim County owns and would require 
hardware Antrim County does not have. 
• The Dominion Voting System's (DVS) Democracy Suite (D-Suite) 5.5 that is used in Antrim 
County, Michigan was certified by the United States (U.S.) Election Assistance Commission (EAC) 
-a bipartisan commission that oversees the administration of elections and the federal voting 
system certification process -on September 14, 2018.1 The description of the outdated 
operating system, antivirus, and security updates (i.e., WSUS version) are the correct versions 
for the certified system. The D-Suite 5.5 voting system is comprised of multiple software, 
hardware, and firmware components. The back-end computer server system, known as the 
Election Management System (EMS), is a suite of multiple independent software applications. 
Antrim County only uses a subset of those software applications. 
• Claims of impropriety through the Adjudication application software in the Election 
Management System are not relevant, as Antrim County does not use the software application 
in question, and does not have compatible systems, mainly the lmageCast Central tabulator. 
• Implications that a lack of forensic logs for processes that Antrim County does not and cannot 
use are evidence of an untrustworthy process are unsupportable. If Antrim Co does not and 
cannot use the Adjudication application software, the lack of digital logs for that application is to 
be expected. 
• Suggesting that scanned ballots that were designated, or alerted, for further review is evidence 
of an abnormally high "error rate" is false and misleading. When hand-marked paper ballots are 
scanned by a machine, the machine will alert election officials to things like write-in voting, 
damaged ballots, overvotes, undervotes, and stray marks. The evidence provided in the report 
that shows screenshots of logs and files setting describe situations where the machine 
performed the intended processes based on the configuration settings. 
• Speculation of that any findings reflect that Ranked Choice Voting may have been enabled is not 
supportable when the systems in question in Antrim County, Dominion Voting System's (DVS) 
Democracy Suite (D-Suite) 5.5 do not have that Ranked Choice Voting capability -the 
screenshot provided is for D-Suite 5.11.2 
The report also demonstrates a callous misunderstanding of the actual current voting system 
certification process to the US Election Assistance Commission's Voluntary Voting System Guidelines3, a 
misunderstanding of elections infrastructure as critical infrastructure, and posits non-existent provisions 
within the Help America Vote Act. 
Most importantly, voters in Antrim County, Michigan, voted on paper ballots. Those records have been 
reviewed and recounted, by hand. This verification, independent of the software and hardware systems 
1 https //www eac gov/sites/default/files/voting system/files/DSuite55 CertConf Scope%28FINAL%29 pdf (last 
accessed on December 15, 2020) 
2 Ibid 
3 https://www.eac.gov/sites/default/files/eac_assets/1/28/VVSG.1.0_Volume_1.PDF (last accessed on December 
15, 2020)  in question, returned consistent results that indicates the consistency of the systems. 4 
4 Hendrickson, Clara and Paul Egan, "Antrim County hand tally affirms certified election results." Detroit Free Press. 
Dec. 17, 2020. 