From: 
Sent: 
To: 
Subject: 
Attachments: Rob Weaver 
Saturday, December 19, 2020 8:20 AM CST 
arina.grossu 
Fwd: Trump and a big protest? 
Image 12-19-20 at 7.53 AM.jpg 
Read below. This is what we are dealing with. Trump has called for the protest on 1/6 FYI 
Co-Founder 
Jericho March 
All Rights Reserved 
Sent from ProtonMail Mobile 
---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Billie Tucker<billie@ceoservicebureau.com> 
Date: On Sat, Dec 19, 2020 at 8:43 AM 
Subject: Fwd: Trump and a big protest? 
To: Billie J. Tucker 
Cc: 
Grossu_01_002721  Do,nald J .. Trump 
@realDonaldiTrum p 
Peter Navarro releases 36-page report 
al:leging election fraud •more than s.ufficientt 
to swing victory t,o Tru1mp https://washex 
.am/3nwaHCe . A great repo:rt by Peter. 
Statistically impossible to have llost the 2020 
Election. Bi,g pr;ot,est in D.C. on January 6th. 
Be there, wrn be wiild! 
18-Dec-20 11:42 PM 
I had an encounter with two very different men regarding the election. I was on a call with Sen. Ron 
Johnson, General Mclnema y and others with some close ties to DC happenings. I'm not sure how I got 
invited to the call but I was glad to be there. 
The discussion was about election integrity. Sen. Johnson adamantly proclaimed there was no wide spread 
fraud in the election. He said over and over again there was no evidence. Even though others on the call 
pointed out people who had claimed they saw it with their own eyes, signed affidavits to the fact and had 
videos of fraud -he said he didn't believe it. He didn't believe those good people who signed their name 
and have been threatened with their very lives. It was stunning to watch him be so stubborn and refuse to 
see what we all have seen. What I observed was a very scared man. He also stated that President Trump 
declaring martial law would be the worst thing ever for our country. Even though the entire time he was 
speaking, he was talking about our Constitution which includes the authority for the President and 
Congress to declare martial law. 
General Mclnemay was the complete opposite. He had intel and he is not a man to lie. He spoke as a man 
of authority and without fear. He stated this stolen election was High Treason and must be dealt with now 
or America would be under rule of a foreign country -specifically China. He believes President Trump 
Grossu_01_002722  must do anything within his power to save America. He went on to say he has never seen anything so 
wicked in all his time in the military and he had seen a lot. 
I hung up the phone with these thoughts: 
1. We are holding our faith in Congress to do the right thing and stand with Trump. I do NOT believe we 
have enough fearless leaders in the Senate or the House to do that. Most are weak men and women who 
want to cower in their offices and wish this issue would go away. They are actually mad at Trump for 
shining a light on it. Democrats and Republicans alike are furious at this man who is standing up for We 
the People. If there are any in Congress who will stand with Trump, we need to hear from them now. 
2. The military seems to be the only ones who get it. They have seen what we as regular folks have not 
seen. They have the truth and they are helping Trump unleash it so we can ultimately live in peace. That is 
what we are suppose to do -live in peace! 
3. If indeed martial law is called, Trump's martial law will be very different. People who are locked 
down, unable to open their businesses, told to shut up and stay put -are already experiencing martial law. 
Trump will unleash them! That declaration will set in motion the ability to take down Antifa, Black Lives 
Matter and others who are destroying cities. 
4. The evidence IS there! Those who refuse to see it are weak and fearful. Talking points stating "there is 
no evidence" is ridiculous and tiring. We are not stupid. We see it. Those who don't see it-are stupid! 
And those American citizens who are willing to sacrifice their lives to get the truth out -are better and 
stronger patriots than those who sit in Congress sucking their thumbs. I would rather have them with me in 
a foxhole protecting America than most of those in Congress. Just sayin ... 
So on to some breaking news -President Trump released the above last night. This is big news. This is 
really big. 
I read the report he mentions and you can too here: Peter Navarro report 
Notice however he is calling for a big protest in DC on January 6th. That's stunning and I'm sure will send 
those squishy Congressmen and Senators into a tail spin. Oh my goodness what fear must be running 
through their veins today. 
I for one am not afraid. I believe Trump has our back. I believe God has anointed him for such a time as 
this. I believe those ofus who love the Lord will be given a chance to participate in spreading His truth 
and bringing others to the saving grace of Jesus through these difficult days. 
I'm excited for the future. I'm pumped that people are being exposed. I'm thrilled with every day 
Americans who are willing to sacrifice it all -as our founding fathers did. I'm happy those in leadership 
are being exposed as wimps or as warriors. I'm really pleased that the military is ready for action and will 
protect us should the bad guys come to town. I'm thankful for those who delved into this election fraud 
and are publishing their findings to educate the masses. And .. .I'm so incredibly blessed to have friends 
like you to share in this exciting time in the history of America. 
Saddle up friends. We have a country to save! 
And by the way -fear not for the Lord goes before us and will ensure those who tried to destroy our 
nation -will instead be destroyed themselves. That's a biblical promise in Obadiah 15. 
Grossu_01_002723  Have a great weekend and enjoy the peace before the storm. It's coming and we welcome it. It's the only 
way to clean up this mess. 
Perissos, 
Billie Tucker Volpe 
@Linkedln -BillieTuckerVolpe 
www.billietucker.com 
CEO Service Bureau, Inc. 
(904) 910-5024 
Perissos is a Greek word found in the Bible (Ephesians 3:20) meaning 
"exceeding abundantly, beyond what is expected, imagined, or hoped for. 
Billie uses this as her signature word for 2020 -because she hopes you 
will live your life beyond what is imagined or hoped for! 
Grossu_01_002724 