Privileged and Confidential 
TO: 
FROM: 
DATE: 
RE: MEMORANDUM 
Judge James R. Troupis 
Kenneth Chesebro 
November 18, 2020 
The Real Deadline for Settling a State's Electoral Votes 
You asked for a written summary of the legal analysis underlying my 
suggestion during our conference call that, in any judicial review of the 
canvassing/recounting in Wisconsin, we should emphasize that the presidential 
election timetable affords ample time for judicial proceedings, even if initial errors 
in the recount require a remand for further recounting. 
Summary 
There is a very strong argument, supported by historical precedent (in 
particular, the 1960 Kennedy-Nixon contest), that the real deadline for a finding by 
the Wisconsin courts (or, possibly, by its Legislature) in favor of the President and 
Vice President is not December 8 (the "safe harbor" deadline under the Electoral 
Count Act), nor even December 14 (the date on which electors must vote in their 
respective States), but January 6 (the date the Senate and House meet for the 
counting of electoral votes). 
Assuming the electors pledged to Trump and Pence end up meeting at the 
Wisconsin Capitol on December 14 to cast their votes, and then send their votes to 
the President of the Senate in time to be opened on January 6, a court decision (or, 
perhaps, a state legislative determination) rendered after December 14 in favor of 
the Trump-Pence slate of electors should be considered timely. On this view, the 
only real deadline during the next month is the December 14 deadline to cast 
electoral votes -so that any state judicial proceedings which extend past that date, 
working toward resolution of who has won Wisconsin's electoral votes, are entirely 
compatible with federal law provided that they are completed by January 6. 
1. The January 6 Hard Deadline 
The date which has "ultimate significance" under federal law, as Justice 
Ginsburg aptly noted, is "the sixth day of January," the date set by 3 U.S.C. § 15 on 
which the Senate and House determine "the validity of electoral votes." Bush v. 
Gore, 531 U.S. 98, 144 (2000) (Ginsburg, J., dissenting). That is the first date on 
which any electoral votes are actually counted. On that date, the Twelfth 
Amendment directs, "[t]he President of the Senate shall, in the presence of the 
Senate and House of Representatives, open all the certificates and the votes shall 
then be counted." 
Chapman025125  Privileged and Confidential 
The Real Deadline for Settling a State's Electoral Votes 
2. What Must Happen on December 14 
The other date of particular federal significance is the date that the ten 
Wisconsin electors pledged, respectively, to Trump-Pence and Eiden-Harris, must 
meet in Madison to actually cast their electoral votes, if those votes are later to be 
eligible to be counted in Congress on January 6. Art. II, § 1, cl. 4, gives Congress 
the power to specify the date "on which [the electors] shall give their Votes, which 
Day shall be the same throughout the United States." Exercising that power, 
Congress has mandated that the electors "shall meet and give their votes on the 
first Monday after the second Wednesday in December" -this year, December 14 -
"at such place in each State as the legislature of such State shall direct." 3 U.S.C. § 
7. 2 
In accord with§ 7, the Wisconsin Legislature has directed that "[t]he electors 
for president and vice president shall meet at the state capitol" at noon on 
December 14. Wis. Stat.§ 7.75(1). 
Prudence dictates that the ten electors pledged to Trump and Pence meet and 
cast their votes on December 14 (unless by then the race has been conceded). It is 
highly uncertain, given the language in Art. II requiring that all electors 
throughout the United States vote on the same day, whether Congress could validly 
count electoral votes cast on a later date.1 
It may seem odd that the electors pledged to Trump and Pence might meet 
and cast their votes on December 14 even if, at that juncture, the Trump-Pence 
ticket is behind in the vote count, and no certificate of election has been issued in 
favor of Trump and Pence. However, a fair reading of the federal statutes suggests 
that this is a reasonable course of action. 
The basic responsibility of the electors is to "make and sign six certificates of 
the votes given by them" for President and Vice President, 3 U.S.C. § 9; "seal up the 
certificates so made by them," id.,§ 10; and forward them by registered mail to the 
President of the Senate and to other officials. Id., § 11. These actions are carried out 
without any involvement by state officials. 
1 In 1857, Congress spent two days debating whether it would count electoral 
votes from Wisconsin which were cast one day late due to a blizzard in Madison. 
The result of the presidential election did not turn on the question, and it was left 
unresolved. Cong. Globe, 34th Cong., 3rd Sess., 644-60, 662-68 (1857). 
Chapman025126  Privileged and Confidential 3 
The Real Deadline for Settling a State's Electoral Votes 
It also seems clear that if, before the electors cast their votes, the candidates 
for whom they are voting have been issued certificates of election, it is the duty of 
the governor to deliver the certificates to the electors "on or before the day" they are 
required to meet, id. at§ 6, and the electors are then to attach the certificates to the 
electoral votes they transmit to the President of the Senate. Id., § 9. 
But nothing in federal law requires States to resolve controversies over 
electoral votes prior to the meeting of the electors. Indeed, there is no set deadline 
for a State to transmit to Congress a certification of which slate of electors has been 
determined to be the valid one. The duty of a state governor is merely to transmit 
the certification "as soon as practicable after the conclusion of the appointment of 
the electors in such State by the final ascertainment, under and in pursuance of the 
laws of such State providing for such ascertainment .... "Id.,§ 6. 
3. Hawaii's Electoral Votes in the 1960 Kennedy-Nixon Contest 
The reasonableness of the above statutory analysis, and the prudence of the 
Trump-Pence electors meeting in Madison on December 14 to cast their votes and 
transmit them to Congress, regardless of the status of the electoral contest in 
Wisconsin at that juncture, is illustrated by how the Democratic Party handled the 
uncertainty over Hawaii's electoral votes in the 1960 presidential election between 
John F. Kennedy and Richard M. Nixon.2 
Remarkably, Hawaii's electoral votes were counted in favor of Kennedy and 
Johnson when the votes were opened in Congress on January 6 even though: 
(1) they did not arrive in Congress until that very morning: 
(2) on the date the Electoral College met, December 19, 1960, Nixon's electors 
had in hand a certificate from the Hawaii governor certifying that Nixon had won 
the state (by 141 votes); 
(3) the Kennedy electors nonetheless also met and voted on that day, to 
preserve the possibility that their votes would eventually be certified as the valid 
ones; 
(4) on the same day, a Hawaii court ordered a recount of the entire state; 
2 The following summary is adapted from Michael L. Rosin & Jason Harrow, 
"How to Decide a Very Close Election for Presidential Electors: Part 2," Take Care 
Blog, Oct. 23, 2020 (https://takecareblog.com/blog/how-to-decide-a-very-close­
election-for- presidential-electors-part-2) (visited Nov. 17, 2020). 
Chapman025127  Privileged and Confidential 
The Real Deadline for Settling a State's Electoral Votes 
(5) only on December 28 did the Hawaii courts issue a final decision finding 
that Kennedy had, in fact, won the state (by 105 votes); and 
(6) because the Kennedy electors had taken care to vote on the proper day, 
and the governor signed an amended certificate of election which was then rushed 
to Washington, in time to be counted in Congress, the electoral votes were awarded 
to Kennedy (although, it should be noted, the votes were counted only after Vice 
President Nixon, in his capacity as President of the Senate, suggested without 
objection that the votes be counted in favor of Kennedy "[i]n order not to delay the 
further count of the electoral vote," and "without the intent of establishing a 
precedent"). 4 
The last-minute counting of the Hawaii electoral votes in favor of Kennedy in 
1960 buttresses the conclusion of constitutional law scholar Laurence Tribe that, 
absent some indication by a State to the contrary, the only real deadline for a state 
to complete its recount of a presidential election is "before Congress starts to count 
the votes on January 6."3 
4. Nothing in Wisconsin Law Is Inconsistent With the Trump-Pence 
Electors Casting Their Votes on December 14, as the Kennedy­
Johnson Electors Did in 1960 
The Eiden camp might well seek to create a sense of urgency, and try to 
artificially truncate the post-election process of recounting and adjudication, by 
claiming that Wisconsin has an important interest in having all controversies 
regarding the election resolved by December 8, in order to gain the benefit of the 
"safe harbor" provision of the Electoral Count Act, which purportedly mandates that 
a final result reached in a State by the safe-harbor date "shall be conclusive" when 
votes are counted in Congress. 3 U.S.C. § 5.4 The U.S. Supreme Court's view that 
3 Laurence H. Tribe, "Comment: eroG .v hsuB and Its Disguises: Freeing 
Bush v. Gore From Its Hall of Mirrors," 115 Harv. L. Rev. 170, 265-66 (2001). 
4 One must use the caveat "purportedly," because there are substantial reasons 
to doubt that the Electoral Count Act, enacted by the 50th Congress in 1877, can 
have any binding effect on the 117th Congress which will convene on January 3, 
regarding its authority and obligation to count electoral votes as it sees fit. In 
particular, there is a very strong argument that the Senate which convenes in 
January has the inherent power to set whatever rules it wishes for deciding 
challenges to the electoral votes cast in this election. To view the Electoral Count 
Act as tying the Senate's hands, unless amended, would mean that the Senate 
would need the permission of both the House and the President (absent a veto-proof 
Chapman025128  Privileged and Confidential 5 
The Real Deadline for Settling a State's Electoral Votes 
Florida had a strong interest in qualifying under this safe-harbor provision was a 
key factor in its decision to halt the ongoing Florida recount in the 2000 presidential 
election. Bush v. Gore, 531 U.S. 98, 110-11 (2000) (per curiam). 
However, nowhere has the Wisconsin Legislature placed any priority on 
ensuring that post-election procedures in presidential contests are completed by the 
safe-harbor date. Far from mandating that certificates of election must be issued by 
this date, the Legislature has, with regard to all elections, affirmatively banned 
certificates of election from being issued unless and until all timely brought 
recounts, and subsequent judicial proceedings, have been exhausted: 
When a valid petition for recount is filed ... the governor or 
commission may not issue a certificate of election until the recount has 
been completed and the time allowed for filing an appeal has passed, 
or if appeal until the appeal is decided. 
Wis. Stat. § 7. 70(5)(a).5 
voting margin) to change the rules governing its deliberations, a result which 
cannot be squared with Art. I,§ 5, providing that "[e]ach House may determine the 
Rules of its Proceedings .... " As Professor Tribe has noted, "[t]here is no 
constitutionally prescribed method by which one Congress may require a future 
Congress to interpret or discharge a constitutional responsibility in any particular 
way." Tribe, supra note 3, at 267 n.388 (citing Laurence H. Tribe, 1 American 
Constitutional Law,§ 2-3, at 125-26 n.1 (3d ed. 2000)). See also Chris Land & David 
Schultz, On the Unenforceability of the Electoral Count Act, 13 Rutgers J. of Law & 
Pub. Pol'y 340, 368-77, 385-87 (2016); Vasan Kesavan, Is the Electoral Count Act 
Unconstitutional?, 80 N. Car. L. Rev. 1654, 1729-59, 1779-93 (2002). 
5 To be sure, in accord with ordinary practice, under which the winner of the 
electoral votes in Wisconsin will typically be known well in advance of the date 
when electors cast their votes, the Legislature has provided that in presidential 
elections, the govenor "shall prepare a certificate showing the determination of the 
results of the canvass and the names of the persons elected," and send six duplicate 
originals to one of the electors on or before the date electoral votes are cast. Wis. 
Stat.§ 7.70(b). Obviously this ministerial duty exists only when a certificate of 
election has already issued under§ 7. 70(a), after all post-election recounts and 
related legal proceedings have reached finality. There is nothing in§ 7.70(b) that 
purports to affect the timetable for resolving post-election proceedings. 
Chapman025129  Privileged and Confidential 
The Real Deadline for Settling a State's Electoral Votes 
Conclusion 
The position taken by the Trump-Pence campaign regarding the outside 
deadline for resolving post-election challenges could conceivably end up proving 
critical to the result of this election. If so, it would not be the first time: the failure 
of the Gore team in 2000 to focus on the real deadline early enough was a clear 
mistake. Thus, the issue of the real deadline should be examined carefully in the 
near future, so that the campaign presents a clear and united front concerning it. 
Reflecting on the failure of the Gore challenge to Bush's victory in Florida, 
Ron Klain observed in a 2002 essay that "time was our enemy" -to an extent that 
"cannot be underestimated."6 Klain's early mistake was to overlook the possibility 
that January 6 might be the real deadline for resolving the matter of who had won 
Florida's electoral votes. As Klain recounted, when he went on CNN shortly after 
the election (on November 10), he "rather offhandedly noted that there was plenty 
of time for a full and fair counting of the people's votes, given that the electoral 
votes were not scheduled to be counted until December 18 .... "7 
The timetable for Gore to win the recount was further truncated by Gore 
attorney David Boies who, "during the first argument to the Florida Supreme 
Court," on November 20, "had said that the election would be over on December 12, 
because of an obscure provision of federal law."8 Journalist and lawyer David 
Kaplan vividly describes Boies's fateful decision in answering the justices' question 
regarding the outside deadline for resolving the controversy over the recount:9 
The deadline [Boies] repeatedly cited was December 12, six days 
before the Electoral College met and twenty-two days hence -a 
veritable eternity in the day-to-day, minute-to-minute struggle. This 
was the date mandated by the Electoral Count Act by which states had 
to get their acts together, in order to prevent Congress from possibly 
rejecting a slate of presidential electors. December 12 was a so-called 
6 Ronald A. Klain & Jeremy B. Bash, "The Labor of Sisyphus: The Gore Recount 
Perspective," in Overtime!: The Election 2000 Thriller (2002) (Larry B. Sabato, ed.), at 161. 
7 Id. 
8 Jeffrey Toobin, Too Close to Call: The Third-Six-Day Battle to Decide the 2000 
Election 195 (2001). 
9 David A. Kaplan, The Accidental President: How 413 Lawyers, 9 Supreme Court 
Justices, and 5,963,110 (Give or Take a Few) Floridians Landed George W. Bush in the White 
House 142-43 (2001). 6 
Chapman025130  Privileged and Confidential 
The Real Deadline for Settling a State's Electoral Votes 
safe harbor, but it was not a requirement ordained by either the U.S. 
Constitution, the Florida constitution, or even Congress itself. It was 
only in the nature of a benefit offered, with no penalty other than the 
absence of the benefit -sort of a no-risk offer. Any electoral slate 
determined thereafter simply would not be immune from congressional 
examination in a close election. That might seem like a big deal in 
theory, but did anyone really believe that in practice the electoral votes 
of one of the most populous states in the Union might go uncounted 
altogether? The distinction between a safe harbor as a freebie or 
absolute requirement was vital, but Boies didn't make it. Boies figured: 
Why should he? If his client got the time to count, Gore would overtake 
Bush and hand him the witch's hourglass 
Wells pressed Boies on whether he agreed that December 12 
represented the outer bounds. 
"I do, Your Honor." He said this despite there being no state law 
or executive pronouncement to that effect. 
Boies's concession of the date as a constitutional line over which 
no recount could cross would come back to haunt him in two weeks at 
the U.S. Supreme Court. It walled him in from ever offering such dates 
as December 18 (when the Electoral College convened), January 6 
(when Congress met in joint session to count the electoral votes), or 
even January 20 (Inauguration Day). Indeed, January 20 was the only 
date mandated by the federal Constitution (in the Twentieth 
Amendment) -the other dates were mere statutory creations, which 
could be changed. 
But to the extent the justices were going to come up with a new 
timetable, thinking about December 12 was critical. Any certification 
of the election -whether it included all, some, or none of the results 
from manual recounts -had to happen in time for the contest phase of 
Florida law to play out. A contest lawsuit needed time for trial and 
appeals. That had to be completed by December 12, according to 
Boies's answer. 
If Boies had instead taken the position that January 6 was the real deadline 
for resolving the contest over Florida's electoral vote, citing the Hawaii 1960 
example, Gore might ultimately have prevailed. So the issue of what is the real 
deadline is an issue that warrants close examination. 
K.C. 7 
Chapman025131 