1 
2 
3 
4 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE 
5 JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL, 
6 U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
7 WASHINGTON, D.C. 
8 
9 
10 
11 CONTINUED INTERVIEW OF: CASSIDY HUTCHINSON 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 Tuesday, May 17, 2022 
Washington, D.C. 
20 The interview in the above matter was held in room 380 Cannon House Office 
21 Building, commencing at 2:12 p.m. 
22 Present: Representative Cheney. 1  1 
2 Appearances: 
3 
4 
5 For the SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE 
6 THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL: 
7 
8 
9 SENIOR INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
10 For CASSIDY HUTCHINSON: 
11 
12 STEFAN PASSANTINO 2  1 
2 Mr- It's 2:12 on May 17th, and this is an interview of Ms. Cassidy 
3 Hutchinson conducted by the House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th 
4 Attack on the United States Capitol pursuant to House Resolution 503. 
5 Ms. Hutchinson, can you please state your full name and spell your last name for 
6 the record? 
7 Ms. Hutchinson. Cassidy Jacqueline Hutchinson, H-u-t-c-h-i-n-s-o-n. 
8 And, Mr. Passantino, can you please introduce it yourself and spell 
9 your last name for the record? 
10 Mr. Passantino. Yes. Stefan Passantino, Pas in Paul, a-s, s as in Sam, 
11 a-n-t-i-n-o. 3 
12 - And my name is- I'm a senior investigative counsel for 
13 the select committee. It is good to see you both again. And with me in the room is 
14 Ms. Liz Cheney, vice chair for the select committee. 
15 Now, we have met before on February 23rd and March 7th, but we did issue a 
16 new subpoena for your testimony and you are here today to conduct this transcribed 
17 interview pursuant to that subpoena. Do you understand that? 
18 
19 Ms. Hutchinson. Yes, sir. 
- Now, the ground rules today are the same as they were before, but 
20 just to go over them briefly for your refresher. 
21 There is an official court reporter who is transcribing the record of this deposition 
22 and she will be taking the official record. So please wait until each question is 
23 completed before you begin your response and we'll try to wait until your response is 
24 complete before we begin our next question. 
25 The stenographer cannot record nonverbal responses such as shaking your head.  1 So it is important that you answer each question with an audible and verbal response. 
2 We also ask that you provide complete answers based on your best recollection. 
3 And if the question isn't clear, please ask for clarification. And if you don't know the 
4 answer, please just say that as well. 
5 I do want to remind you, I know we went over this before, but it is unlawful to 
6 deliberately provide false information to Congress. 
7 Do you have any questions about what we just went over? 
8 
9 Ms. Hutchinson. No, sir. 
- Okay. And you and your attorney will have an opportunity to 
10 review the transcript. After it's over, I will be in touch with you about that, 
11 Mr. Passantino. And just for the record, this is being video recorded. 
12 If you need a break, that is fine, but note that that will stay on. So we just ask 
13 that you maybe head over there or we can step out, whatever's best for you. 
14 With that, unless you have any questions, I will turn things over to Ms. Cheney. 
15 Ms. Cheney. Thank you very much. 
16 And thank you again, Cassidy. And we recognize the imposition of this. 4 
17 Obviously, the committee has been involved in collecting information in a number 
18 of ways. And additional information has come to light since we talked to you last that 
19 we wanted to ensure that we talked to you about again. 
20 So I am going to ask you some questions about both what you may have heard 
21 and also what others may have told you that they heard. So I will begin. 
22 Did you see or hear President Trump say anything on January 6th after he 
23 returned from the Ellipse? 
24 Ms. Hutchinson. Personally to me or generally speak --like, throughout the 
25 afternoon?  1 
2 Ms. Cheney. Both. 
Ms. Hutchinson. I did have a conversation with him after he returned from the 5 
3 Ellipse on the 6th. There is a point where I was standing outside of the Oval Office 
4 dining room, I was trying to get Mr. Meadows' attention because Mr. Jordan was on the 
5 line for him, where I heard Mr. Trump in the dining room. But at that point, the door 
6 was shut --I mean, the door was open and shut throughout that little period anyway. 
7 So there was a lot of conversation happening in the dining room at that time, but there 
8 wasn't anything overly significant during the brief period that I was attempting to get Mr. 
9 Meadows on the phone. 
10 Ms. Cheney. What did you hear the President say? 
11 
12 
13 Ms. Hutchinson. When I was in the dining room? 
Ms. Cheney. Uh-huh. 
Ms. Hutchinson. He was watching the TV. At the time that I was in the dining 
14 room he was watching TV and the protesters were going into the Capitol and they were 
15 having more broad conversations about what they should do. Mr. Meadows had just 
16 kind of been facilitating the conversation from that point. 
17 Ms. Cheney. Did you hear the President say anything about the chants about 
18 hang Mike Pence? 
19 Ms. Hutchinson. He had been aware that that was being chanted at the time. 
20 Ms. Cheney. And did you hear him say anything about that? 
21 Ms. Hutchinson. I heard him kind of question if it was our supporters and how 
22 many people there were chanting that at the time. And I had heard Mr. Meadows and 
23 him having a conversation about the chants and if there is anything they should do about 
24 it or how they personally felt about it at the time. 
25 Ms. Cheney. And so, where were you when you heard this?  6 
1 Ms. Hutchinson. So this is right when I stepped in to give Mr. Meadows the 
2 phone they were having the conversation about Mr. Pence. And then I tapped Mr. 
3 Meadows' shoulder, giving him the phone to talk with Mr. Jordan, and he stepped out of 
4 the butler's pantry --out of the dining room into the butler's pantry. 
5 Ms. Cheney. So did you hear the President express anything specific about the 
6 hang Mike sentiment? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Not when I was in the dining room. 7 
8 Ms. Cheney. Were there any other moments during that day that you heard him 
9 say anything specifically about hang Mike Pence? 
10 
11 
12 Ms. Hutchinson. Not from the President, no. 
Ms. Cheney. Secondhand? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Meadows had come back and talked about the President's 
13 reaction to that. He was with the attorneys at that time. They were talking about 
14 whether they should put out a tweet or if that should be addressed explicitly. 
15 Ms. Cheney. Did you ever hear the President --the committee has a witness 
16 who has told us that they believe you heard the President say, quote, "Mike Pence 
17 deserves to be fucking hung," close quote. 
18 Ms. Hutchinson. I recall there being a conversation in the West Wing along 
19 those lines. I don't --I don't know if that's the verbatim quote. I was not present if the 
20 President had said that, though, physically present in the room. 
21 Ms. Cheney. Did anyone tell you? Tell us about that conversation in the West 
22 Wing. 
23 Ms. Hutchinson. There was a conversation when Mr. Meadows had gotten back 
24 from the Oval dining room. And he had walked into the main hub of our office and he 
25 said something along those lines and attributed it to the President. But I didn't hear the  1 President say it firsthand. 
2 Ms. Cheney. And tell you what you heard Mr. Meadows say. 
3 Ms. Hutchinson. They were having a conversation about the hang Mike Pence 
4 chants in the Capitol at the time. And that's when he had come --he probably came 
5 back a couple minutes later, maybe 5 to 7 minutes later, and he was walking into our 
6 office I believe with Eric Herschmann and Pat Cipollone and they were talking about that 
7 reaction and that Mr. Meadows had said something along the lines of what you --I don't 
8 remember the verbatim quote. 
9 And then Pat had ducked into the office --Mark's office --Mr. Meadows' office 
10 with him and said we need do something about this and then the door shut after that. 
11 Ms. Cheney. So can you tell us exactly what Mr. Meadows said? 
12 Ms. Hutchinson. What I heard Mr. Meadows say was he thinks --
13 
14 Ms. Cheney. And "he" is? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Trump has heard the chants something along the line, the 
15 quote that you had. I don't --
16 Ms. Cheney. Can you tell us what it was so --
17 Ms. Hutchinson. Sorry. I don't remember the exact quote. I'm trying to 
18 remember. I'll think back about the exact phrasing of it. 
19 But he had said that to Pat. I don't know if Pat was not in the room in the Oval 
20 dining room at the time, and that's why he was saying it to him. And I remember Mr. 
21 Meadows shaking his head saying, I don't know what to do. And then that's when Pat 
22 said, well, he has to something, and they ducked into his office. 
23 Ms. Cheney. And so, can you just tell us your recollection of what Mr. Meadows 
24 actually said? 
25 Ms. Hutchinson. I don't remember him saying at that time in the immediate 7  8 
1 reaction. I remember later in the day he had hypothetically asked a number of people 
2 that were standing in the office if they thought that we should address it. And he said, I 
3 don't know if we should address it. I'm not sure that we should address it right now. 
4 think if we are going to do something we need to talk about the rioters. I don't think we 
5 need to say something about Mr. Pence. 
6 But I don't know if this was before or after the President's tweet went out about 
7 Mr. Pence. I don't know what the time stamp was of that tweet that afternoon. 
8 Ms. Cheney. So the tweet was at 2:24. And I believe you told us that you got 
9 the notification on the phone. Can you tell us some more about that? 
10 So you got the notification on your phone about the tweet and then what did you 
11 do? 
12 
13 
14 Ms. Hutchinson. After the tweet had come out? 
Ms. Cheney. Yeah, when you saw the tweet. 
Ms. Hutchinson. I think I just was at my desk at the time. I think it was really at 
15 first to see that something had gone out --
16 Ms. Cheney. Does that mean the tweet that said Mike Pence doesn't have the 
17 courage to do what needs to be done? And that was the 2:24 tweet. 
18 Ms. Hutchinson. Okay. 
19 Ms. Cheney. So that was the first tweet after the President came back from the 
20 Ellipse. So do you remember seeing that tweet? 
21 Ms. Hutchinson. I remember seeing that tweet. I don't remember if that was 
22 before or after the chants, though. I would have to --do you know when they first --I 
23 guess what time they broke through into the Capitol? 
24 Ms. Cheney. Well, the riot was declared at 1:44. 
25 Ms. Hutchinson. There is the point of the bike barricades versus getting into the  9 
1 Capitol. 
2 - Yes. I can go through some of the timeline that I put together and 
3 this may not be exact. But around 12:53, while the President was still delivering his 
4 speech on the Ellipse, the rioters were overwhelming the police on the outer perimeter of 
5 the Capitol. 
6 Around 1:03 they pushed up to the steps at the Capitol, so still roughly while the 
7 President is speaking. 
8 And then there is a pipe bomb found around 1:07. 
9 I think 2:12 may be when they actually entered the Capitol itself. 
10 
11 
12 look at. 
13 Ms. Hutchinson. Okay. 
- And this tweet comes out at 2:24. It is exhibit 9 if it's helpful to 
Ms. Hutchinson. So I would think --so they only got into the Capitol at --you 
14 said 2:12? 
15 
16 - [Inaudible.] 
Mr. Hutchinson. Again, I'm going to have to think about the specifics of the 
17 timeline for that, because I don't know when the chants had started. But I --the 
18 timeframe is --I believe they had been chanting inside the Capitol at that time. So I 
19 think that this conversation happened after --in the chief's office --happened after this 
20 tweet had gone out. 
21 
22 Ms. Cheney. Okay. 
Ms. Hutchinson. To my best recollection, though, just because it is the timing 
23 with them breaking into the Capitol versus this only being 12 minutes after. 
24 Ms. Cheney. Okay. Can you just go back, Cassidy? I just want to make sure 
25 that it is clear and walk us through specifically what you heard the chief of staff, Mr.  10 
1 Meadows, say, and tell us what you heard him say to your recollection. 
2 Ms. Hutchinson. So I was at my desk --well, I was at my desk and Mr. Meadows 
3 was in his office. I had talked to him a couple times. And then he'd gone down to the 
4 Oval dining room in that middle period where he is still in our offices trying to get a hold 
5 of Mr. Jordan. 
6 And then he ended up going down to the Oval dining room. So I was then trying 
7 it reach out to Mr. Jordan myself and I had Mr. Meadows phones. I'd reached in on my 
8 personal cell phone --it might have been my work cell phone --that's how Mr. Jordan and 
9 Members spoke. 
10 So I had gone down to the butler's pantry and stopped at the Oval dining room, 
11 told on duty at the time, that I need Mr. Meadows [inaudible] 
12 going to get him, and we looked through --there's a peephole and Mr. Meadows' back 
13 was sort of towards us. 
14 So I opened the door. They were watching TV. I'd heard them speaking about 
15 Mr. Pence, but I was more focused on kind of getting Mr. Meadows' attention, telling him 
16 that Mr. Jordan is on the phone. And I remember I wasn't going to linger there because 
17 I wanted to get my phone back. I didn't know how long he would be in and I didn't want 
18 to go back into the dining room again. 
19 And then I --they closed the door, I stepped out and Mr. Meadows stepped out. 
20 I went back to the office. 
21 A couple minutes later, Mr. Meadows had come back with at least Mr. Cipollone, I 
22 believe Mr. Herschmann was there. Those are the two I'm most confident about coming 
23 back to the office with him. 
24 Mr. Meadows had said to the attorney --attorneys --I guess what you had said 
25 about Mr. Pence.  11 
Ms. Cheney. Tell us please. 1 
2 Ms. Hutchinson. That the President was having a conversation of --that there's 
3 a chance that they are being [inaudible] viable or justified. And Mr. Meadows had 
4 looked at the attorneys and asked if there is anything that --
5 Mr. Passantino. And, again, none of this that you talked about relates to 
6 attorney-client privileged communication, so I'm --I don't have a problem with any of 
7 that. 
8 Just be cautious if your conversation is about to turn to legal advice that might 
9 have been provided by Mr. Cipollone or Mr. Herschmann to Mr. Meadows. That is 
10 something that I think we are still asserting a privilege as to nothing that Representative 
11 Cheney is asking about pertains to attorney-client advice. I'm just cautioning you 
12 because we might be on the brink of that, I just want to keep that in your mind. But 
13 that is not instructing you not to answer these questions. 
14 Ms. Cheney. No, I'm just --I want to make sure we are clear about what Mr. 
15 Meadows said President Trump said. 
16 Ms. Hutchinson. I'm more comfortable with the verbatim quote because my 
17 memory is sharp, but I don't think it is that sharp where I can remember every --every 
18 word, and in case there were utterances in between. 
19 But I recall Mr. Meadows coming back saying that Mr. Trump had hypothetically 
20 potentially said that maybe perhaps the chants were justified, he's not doing the right 
21 thing, he's not a true patriot, maybe our supporters have the right idea, and not really 
22 adding additional commentary at that point. And the attorneys were very specific in 
23 wanting to take action on that at the time when they stepped into Mr. Meadows' office 
24 and closed the door. 
25 Ms. Cheney. And do you recall if this was --it sounds like this was after the  12 
1 tweet. Do you recall when this would have been? 
2 Ms. Hutchinson. Again, basing it off of the protesters coming into the Capitol at 
3 2:12, this tweet coming out at 2:24, in my best judgment it would be after, because 
4 I don't think this would have happened in that 12-minute timeframe there. Perhaps in 
5 the next 15 to 20 minutes. 
6 I don't know if my call logs have been made accessible to you all, but if there is 
7 one with Mr. Jordan that would potentially help pinpoint. 
8 Ms. Cheney. Okay. And so in terms of what Mr. Meadows was conveying 
9 President Trump's, his views, it was in response to the hang Mike Pence chants. Is that 
10 correct? 
11 
12 Ms. Hutchinson. Yes, ma'am. 
Ms. Cheney. And it was that the President believed that the Vice President 
13 deserved to be hanged. 
14 Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Trump at that time, the way that I 
15 understand --understood it then and understand it now, had said something along those 
16 lines, but I don't --I wasn't there. I didn't hear the tone of voice that he said it in. 
17 don't know if he was being sarcastic or if it was more of a broad blanket statement of him 
18 just being very frustrated with Mr. Pence this day. You know, I don't want to attribute 
19 anything he said to deliberate actions. 
20 Ms. Cheney. No, I'm just asking what you heard Mr. Meadows say. 
21 Ms. Hutchinson. No. Right. I understand that is not where we are going, but 
22 I'm being cautious about my words because I want to be careful that I'm not saying that 
23 he --
24 Mr. Passantino. And I don't want to interrupt nor do I want to shape what you're 
25 saying at all here. I just --in my notes I had just written down that the President said  13 
1 perhaps they're right as opposed to I think the way the question was, which is in an 
2 affirmative. I mean, I'm not trying to shape your testimony, but just for the accuracy of 
3 what you're saying, just make sure you're clear of exactly what you recall and not --
4 Ms. Hutchinson. Perhaps more additional commentary of what was being said in 
5 the prior few days to it, perhaps that the Vice President doesn't have the courage, 
6 perhaps he's not a true patriot, perhaps he should be --should listen to us and actually do 
7 the right thing, I see [inaudible] at the time, which was --
8 
9 
10 
11 Ms. Cheney. But this is a very specific --
Ms. Hutchinson. Right. But just in the clarification from that point. 
I don't think that answers your question. I'm sorry. I --
Ms. Cheney. No. I mean, I just want to make sure, because we have --it 
12 sounds like --well, let me ask you this, just to be very clear. 
13 Because we have information that the President said Mike Pence deserves to be 
14 f'ing hung, that you overheard that either directly or secondhand that --
15 
16 
17 Ms. Hutchinson. It was secondhand from Mr. Meadows. 
Ms. Cheney. You heard Mr. Meadows say that. 
Ms. Hutchinson. But I don't know if that was the exact quote, but it was 
18 something along those lines. I don't know if there were a few words in between or 
19 additional commentary. 
20 Ms. Cheney. Okay. Thank you. And then did you have any --did you hear 
21 anything else about what the President said that day? 
22 Ms. Hutchinson. Nothing that I can remember much of. We discussed this at 
23 length on I believe my first deposition day. 
24 If you have more specific questions or anything, I know that there was a lot of 
25 conversations about the tweets he was going to put out or what the video should be if  14 
1 they were going to put a video out. I overheard a lot of chatter from him and Mr. 
2 Meadows as a conduit to him that day as we had attorneys meeting in our office 
3 throughout the afternoon. 
4 Ms. Cheney. And so can you just tell us about some of that in terms of the issues 
5 they were concerned about or the issues they were discussing? 
6 
7 
8 Ms. Hutchinson. It was more just the --I'm sorry. 
Ms. Cheney. No, no, go ahead. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Generally, there were a lot of conflicted opinions about the 
9 context we should put out, how firm we should be. There was people in certain camps 
10 that wanted there to be a very explicit tweet saying call it off, denounce this right now. 
11 And there was another camp that had wanted him to take a more neutral stance 
12 and just say thank you for being here, which is the way that I think he ended up taking 
13 that day. 
14 And there was a smaller camp of people wanting to blame it on people who 
15 weren't his supporters and potentially other groups that weren't affiliated with Mr. 
16 Trump and his campaign, more of the antifa or the antifa going into the Capitol. 
17 But that was the main --those were --those dominated the conversations that I'd 
18 overheard and it was mostly speechwriters in and out of the office, the attorneys in and 
19 out of our office with Mr. Meadows, Ms. Trump, lvanka Trump, Ms. Trump coming in and 
20 discussing what she thought we should put out. Mr. Meadows going to the dining 
21 room, coming back and relaying it to the various groups that were in there at the time 
22 and trying to facilitate things to his ability on that end. 
23 But nothing, I don't think, to add to what's already been discussed in the first 
24 deposition unless you have further questions. 
25 Ms. Cheney. So when you say there was a second group that was sort of urging  15 
1 neutrality, who was in that group? 
2 Ms. Hutchinson. I don't remember. Mr. Meadows was sort of in that group, 
3 because he was trying to echo what the President wanted to do. The President didn't 
4 want to put anything out. I know Mr. Meadows personally thought he should put 
5 something out. And I believe the way that Mr. Meadows took the line with that was 
6 let's kind of you don't have to fully denounce it, you don't. Just call off. You don't 
7 have to blame it on other people either. Let's try to stay as neutral as we can. 
8 There were a few people in support of that too, but I guess it's difficult for me to 
9 remember because a lot of people had been in the camp of call off this, this is really bad, 
10 he needs to put out an explicit statement denouncing this, and had eventually drifted 
11 more towards the middle [inaudible] realized there wasn't going to be that more 
12 definitive statement put out to start. 
13 Ms. Cheney. And so the --did you hear people talking about why the President 
14 didn't want to put a statement out? 
15 Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Meadows at one point had told me that he didn't want to 
16 put a statement out because he didn't at first, Mr. Trump didn't think that the riots were 
17 necessarily unjustified and that there was going to be violence inside the Capitol. He 
18 saw it as supporters going into a somewhat public building. They were upset about the 
19 electoral vote that day and he thought that it was --they were doing what they should be 
20 doing. 
21 But as the day progressed, he --well, I'll leave it there, I'll leave it at that for now. 
22 Ms. Cheney. Did Mr. Meadows relay to you or did you overhear Mr. Meadows 
23 talk about anything else the President said that day? 
24 Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Meadows and I had conversations with several people in 
25 the office. I believe Ms. Trump was in the office at the time. I believe Ambassador  16 
1 O'Brien, the National Security Advisor, was in the office at the time with Mr. Ornate. 
2 And he was talking about how Mr. Trump was really angry at everybody who was telling 
3 him that he needed to be doing something more. And he had asked the people in the 
4 room with him what our opinions were on that. 
5 And we had said, you know, many of us had said that we think we should be doing 
6 something a little bit more. I think that would be the general consensus throughout the 
7 administration, not just in the West Wing or White House complex, but throughout the 
8 executive branch. 
9 And I remember saying something along the lines to Mr. Meadows that I had 
10 heard from several Members of Congress calling on Mr. Trump to say something. And 
11 like I said to Mr. Meadows, I have your cell phones on my desk and your phones are 
12 blowing up, Members kept texting you, there's people in the press who are texting you, 
13 Mark, like, you need do something right now, this is your responsibility. 
14 I'm not sure how much power I have right now, I'm not sure how much I can do. 
15 I think --I didn't say this, somebody else in the room said that, I don't remember who, 
16 basically you need to figure it out, you are the chief of staff. 
17 But this was probably around some between 3 and 3:30 that day. 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 Ms. Cheney. So while the violence was clearly underway? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Correct. 
Ms. Cheney. And did Mr. Meadows explain to you why the President was -­
Ms. Hutchinson. I didn't ask. 
Ms. Cheney. --not taking action? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I didn't ask Mr. Meadows. 
Ms. Cheney. Anything else, any discussions with Mr. O'Brien that you recall? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. O'Brien was out of the office in the earlier part of the  17 
1 afternoon, if I remember correctly. And that's the only time that I remember that day 
2 overlapping with Mr. O'Brien at the office, because there is a point after he arrived --I 
3 believe we talked about this a couple weeks ago --but back and forth between my office 
4 and the Eisenhower Building to our Secret Service detail to coordinate transportation to 
5 get him home. 
6 So there is a chance he could have come into our office and had more 
7 conversations, but that is the only time that I specifically remember having a conversation 
8 with Mr. O'Brien that day. 
9 
10 Ms. Cheney. And what did Mr. O'Brien say? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I just remember Mr. O'Brien shaking his head at me and saying 
11 this is wild, or can you believe this is happening? 
12 
13 Ms. Cheney. Anybody else, Mr. Cipollone, Mr. Herschmann? 
Ms. Hutchinson. To me specifically? 
14 Ms. Cheney. Or that you overheard. 
15 Ms. Hutchinson. I overheard a lot that day. Nothing of --nothing particularly 
16 that I don't think we have already discussed. But I'll keep thinking on that. If there's 
17 anything that you all have to ask I will try to answer. It is hard to decipher when I heard 
18 things other than what has already been discussed? 
19 Ms. Cheney. Any --did you overhear any other discussions about the 2:24 
20 tweet? 
21 Ms. Hutchinson. I remember the conversation before this tweet. So Mr. --this 
22 is when Mr. Meadows had a couple times gone down to the Oval dining room. And I 
23 recall him wanting him to put something out. And I remember once the tweet had gone 
24 out he came back to the office and had said something along the lines of this is the best 
25 we're going to get for right now.  18 
1 Ms. Cheney. Well, this is the tweet about the Vice President doesn't have the 
2 courage? 
3 
4 
5 now? 
6 
7 Ms. Hutchinson. Right. 
Ms. Cheney. And so he was saying that is the best we are going to get right 
Ms. Hutchinson. Yes, correct. Sorry. 
Ms. Cheney. No, that's okay. 
8 And the best in terms of did he indicate what he thought they were --what the 
9 President was trying to accomplish with this tweet? 
10 Ms. Hutchinson. He said that in a conversation --he was walking into the office. 
11 Actually, I believe this was the same conversation from when they had left the dining 
12 room with Mr. Herschmann and Mr. Cipollone coming back to our office. And I believe 
13 that is the first thing I heard Mr. Meadows say, I assumed that it was to this tweet. 
14 I believe Mr. Meadows had said when he was coming through that tweet's the 
15 best we're going to get for right now and that the other brief conversation happened as 
16 they are walking from the main area of our lobby into Mr. Meadows' office. 
17 And I remember Mr. Meadows talking again to various people throughout the 
18 afternoon, speechwriters, stenographers, people with the digital team, Mr. Scavino, 
19 about someone may put additional tweets out. 
20 But there was a lot of commotion that afternoon too, so, you know, and I 
21 personally wasn't tracking social media outreach or anything, that wasn't my wheelhouse 
22 with him. 
23 And, you know, I relayed to him what I had heard people say just more generally 
24 speaking. I believe you all had the one exhibit of the message that I had written down. 
25 I believe that was a Member of Congress who had called me and said that or it could have  19 
1 been somebody else at the West Wing at the time and wanted to get in to Mr. Meadows 
2 a potential line to put in a speech or a tweet. 
3 But I wasn't involved in drafting any of the language actually put out that day. 
4 didn't really see it as part of my job or something that I was [inaudible]. 
5 
6 Ms. Cheney. And it wouldn't have been very welcomed? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Just because I didn't work with his Twitter at all. I didn't work 
7 with Mr. Meadows' Twitter either. So I'm not very involved in social media. 
8 
9 Ms. Cheney. Did you talk to Mr. Scavino at all during this period? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Not on the 6th, that I can --not on the 6th. It is entirely 
10 possible he came into the office and we had a brief conversation of, is he in there? And 
11 then having him go in there if he was in the office --in Mr. Meadows' office and I had 
12 been in there. But I don't recall having a conversation with Mr. Scavino about anything 
13 noteworthy other than something that could just be purely logistical. 
14 Ms. Cheney. And what kind of logistics? 
15 Ms. Hutchinson. If Mr. Meadows was in his office or if he was down in the dining 
16 room. 
17 Ms. Cheney. And you went over to talk to Mr. Ornate in the EEOB or the OEOB. 
18 Did you normally walk across to do that or would you normally just call him from your 
19 office to make those arrangements? Is there a reason why you walked over there? 
20 Ms. Hutchinson. So Mr. Ornato's office was directly across my mine. And 
21 oftentimes if you wanted to have a more private moment, we would walk across West 
22 Exec and walk over to the Secret Service down (ph) room, is what they had called it. 
23 don't know if there is a more official name for it. 
24 But we frequently, we would try to time our walks to go over there. So we had 
25 to go frequently go talk to my guys and he would go talk to the President shift over there  20 
1 sometimes in the PBD operations section in the Eisenhower Building. Because I 
2 remember that afternoon we had said, like, I think I went over to his office and said, do 
3 you have to go to the Eisenhower Building? I can walk with you. So we walked over 
4 together at that time. 
5 Ms. Cheney. And what did you two talk about as you walked over there? 
6 Ms. Hutchinson. I believe we were just [inaudible] condition yellow. I think 
7 that was in my text with him too. Or I think we were about to put it into condition 
8 yellow. And he was going over to talk to operations and I was going over to talk to my 
9 guys. 
10 And more just topline conversations that we had. Can you believe this is 
11 happening? I think I said something to him along the lines of, what do you think we 
12 should do or what do you think? Like, do you think that Mark should be doing 
13 something more? Just hypothetically, like, almost trying to get his opinion on if I should 
14 be advising Mark differently or if I should try to insert myself a little bit more. And Mr. 
15 Ornate had said, I don't know how much any of us can do right now. 
16 At that point, we were in the Eisenhower Building. I don't recall --I don't really 
17 recall much else specifically in that timeframe there. We talked later in the afternoon 
18 about getting everybody off campus by a certain time, but that wasn't during that period 
19 when we walked over to the Eisenhower Building. 
20 Ms. Cheney. Okay. Did you overhear any conversations with anybody in the 
21 Willard war room that afternoon? 
22 
23 
24 Ms. Hutchinson. No, ma'am. 
Ms. Cheney. How about Mr. Giuliani? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I had spoken to Mr. Giuliani down at the Ellipse. And Mr. 
25 Meadows had spoken with him when we got back up to the White House. If your  21 
1 question --1 mean, do you want my conversations with him? Which they are the text 
2 messages that I had with him, with Mark. He had the evidence that he thought we 
3 could still send over to the Capitol as evidence that the election was stolen, the electoral 
4 count should be delayed. 
5 And I think he talked to Mr. Meadows about that that afternoon too. That was a 
6 closed door meeting. I just remember him coming in and saying he wanted to talk to 
7 Mr. Meadows about it. 
8 Ms. Cheney. That Mr. Giuliani wanted to talk to Mr. Meadows about this 
9 additional evidence? 
10 Ms. Hutchinson. I believe --I'm sorry. I believe that was a phone call later in 
11 the day. He had called in early on the office line. 
12 Ms. Cheney. Okay. Was this during the --while the Capitol had been 
13 breached? 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 Ms. Hutchinson. I'm not sure of the timing on that. 
Ms. Cheney. But it was --
Ms. Hutchinson. We were back at the White House. 
Ms. Cheney. Like 1:20, I think, or 1:19 [inaudible]. 
Ms. Hutchinson. It is, like, this may be incredibly unhelpful, but some time 
19 between 1:30 and 3 o'clock perhaps. 
20 Ms. Cheney. Okay. So Mr. Meadows spoke to Mr. Giuliani at some point 
21 during --while the attack was underway about additional evidence that they should 
22 be getting --
23 Ms. Hutchinson. And he had spoken with him at the Ellipse rally too, very briefly. 
24 Mr. Meadows had spent most of the rally in the control car of the motorcade. He was 
25 on the phone there. Mr. Giuliani was in the tent behind the stage.  1 But Mr. Meadows had come out of the car when Mr. Trump was about to come 
2 off the stage. They had crossed paths and had a conversation. But I remember 
3 thinking I hope this checks the box and we're good for this and get it off my radar too. 
4 Ms. Cheney. Okay. So when --did Mr. Giuliani call Mr. Meadows directly? 
5 Ms. Hutchinson. He called --I believe his assistant called Ms. Thurston. And 
6 Ms. Thurston knew it wasn't a good time for them to connect. And then I had asked 
7 Ms. Thurston who it was, if it was a Member of Congress, because there were Members 
8 of Congress calling our main office line too. 
9 And she said no, it was --I don't remember if she said it was Mr. Giuliani or 
10 Mr. Giulian i's assistant, but calling to talk to Mark about election fraud issues. 
11 
12 Ms. Cheney. And so then --
Ms. Hutchinson. And they ended up connecting I think 10, 15 minutes later. 
13 Mr. Meadows either was in with somebody or was out of the office at the time and she 
14 had told him that Mr. Giuliani had reached out to talk to him. So I put him through. 
Ms. Cheney. And so then Mr. Meadows took the call in his office? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Yes. And I wasn't present for the call. 
Ms. Cheney. And do you remember about how long the call lasted? 22 
15 
16 
17 
18 Ms. Hutchinson. No. [Inaudible] take calls frequently and it was later. I don't 
19 know if he was in there for 20 minutes talking to him or if it was a 1-minute phone call 
20 and he was having other conversations or doing other things. 
21 Ms. Cheney. Okay. Besides this conversation with Mr. Meadows and Mr. 
22 Cipollone and Mr. Herschmann about the 2:24 tweet, did you hear anybody else talking 
23 about the 2:24 tweet? 
24 Ms. Hutchinson. Once the tweet went out, there was a lot of chatter about it in 
25 the West Wing. Some people saying at least a tweet was put out. Some people saying  23 
1 this wasn't enough. 
2 I'm not comfortable with attributing specific opinions to individuals. I don't 
3 remember. There were some people questioning this is all that was going to be put out. 
4 There was a lot of ambiguity in that moment too, though. 
5 Ms. Cheney. Anybody else that you recall Mr. Meadows speaking to that 
6 afternoon? 
7 Ms. Hutchinson. Not specifically in the West Wing or staffers. 
8 Ms. Cheney. Anybody. Or by phone? 
9 Ms. Hutchinson. He talked to his wife actually on the phone. They had dinner 
10 plans that night in Old Town. He called to cancel them. He wasn't sure what time he 
11 was going to be home. 
12 I don't remember other --off the top of my head, I don't remember the 
13 conversations that he had that we haven't already discussed. 
14 But, again, we had a pretty thin number of staffers there that day. So the names 
15 that I have continued to say --I mean, they were frequently in and out of our office and 
16 that was kind of the core group of staffers there that day. 
17 He talked to Don Jr. at one point that afternoon. Don Jr. came back to the White 
18 House. And Mr. Trump, Don Jr., and Ms. Guilfoyle popped into Mr. Meadows' office 
19 before they had left, but I don't know what their conversation was. 
20 Ms. Cheney. Do you know if he talked to General Flynn? 
21 Ms. Hutchinson. I don't know if he spoke with General Flynn that day. He 
22 spoke with General Flynn on the 5th. 
23 
24 
25 Ms. Cheney. By phone or in person? 
Ms. Hutchinson. By phone. 
Ms. Cheney. And tell us about that conversation.  24 
1 Ms. Hutchinson. He had --Mr. Meadows, I don't want to say he had planned to, 
2 he had thought about going to the Willard Hotel the night of the 5th. And I remember 
3 talking to our Secret Service detail saying logistically it would be difficult. And if he had 
4 asked my opinion, which he didn't, but if he'd asked my opinion, which I had expressed to 
5 our Secret Service detail, was that I thought that he should not go there. If there was 
6 anything he needed to accomplish, he could do it by phone. 
7 And I have forgotten [inaudible] I am not sure why he spoke with them by phone 
8 on the 5th. I don't know if he just wanted to go home and knew of from this 
9 conversation or if something else happened in between. 
10 But he had spoken to a few people who were at the Willard Hotel and [inaudible]. 
11 I don't know all that much about the spirit (ph) of what was happening there. I don't 
12 know the personalities that were there that night. I know a handful of them. 
13 I know he spoke with Mr. Flynn though that night because had he been 
14 communicating with him about going to the Willard Hotel. 
15 And I believe --I will leave it there, because I'm not confident enough about the 
16 other conversation they may have had. 
17 
18 Ms. Cheney. Did he talk to Mr. Stone? 
Ms. Hutchinson. That was the one that I wasn't confident of. I don't know if he 
19 spoke to Mr. Stone on January 5th. He had spoken to Mr. Stone a couple of times, 
20 December, January --late December, early January, or the mid-December, early January 
21 timeframe. I don't know about know about what, though. I just remember him 
22 wanting to connect to Mr. Stone. 
23 
24 Ms. Cheney. And so he --did he ask you to connect him to Mr. Stone? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I believe he may have asked once. And I was like I don't have 
25 Mr. Stone's --I remember saying to him, I don't have Mr. Stone's contact information,  25 
1 and I don't really want to have Mr. Stone's contact information. And he said, all right, 
2 that's fine, and got it a separate way. I don't know if Ms. Thurston connected them or if 
3 he reached out to one of his friends or colleagues either at the White House or on the Hill 
4 to get his cell phone number. 
5 Ms. Cheney. You think he may have sent to somebody on the Hill for it? 
6 Ms. Hutchinson. Potentially. I don't think he had it himself. I don't know who 
7 he would have reached out to. I mean, in the immediate --in my immediate memory, 
8 he knows that Mr. Stone and Mr. Gaetz are close. And Mr. Gaetz would frequently talk 
9 about bringing Mr. Stone to meet with Mr. Meadows and it would always get pushed or 
10 delayed. And I started to think it was because Mr. Meadows didn't want to facilitate 
11 that meeting in his office. 
12 So he potentially could have reached out to Mr. Gaetz to receive Mr. Stone's 
13 contact information or Ms. Thurston could have provided it or somebody else in the 
14 White House. I'm just not sure where he got it after that. 
15 
16 
17 Ms. Cheney. And why was he thinking about going to the Willard on the 5th? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I'm not sure. 
Ms. Cheney. And how do you know he was thinking about doing that? 
18 Ms. Hutchinson. Because he told me, would you be okay? I'm trying to decide 
19 if we go to the Willard Hotel. I said, what do we need to go to the Willard Hotel for? 
20 There are some people there that I think I have to meet with. Can you find out when 
21 they are meeting? 
22 And I just kind of let it go at that point. I told Ms. Thurston put it on schedule for 
23 him. I told Ms. Thurston just keep an eye out for this. He just told me this in our 
24 office. And she thanked me. And whatever action --I don't believe she took any 
25 action on it. I think it probably just died naturally.  Ms. Cheney. And did he say why he needed to meet with those people? 
Ms. Hutchinson. He didn't. 
Ms. Cheney. And why didn't you want him to? 26 
1 
2 
3 
4 Ms. Hutchinson. Two reasons. One, I wanted to go home. The second reason 
5 I felt that there was enough going on. And I had heard enough about --to be frank, I 
6 didn't --until after the fact, I didn't --I didn't know that this group was assembling at the 
7 Willard Hotel, there were people there. I didn't know a lot about it until a couple weeks 
8 afterwards. 
9 But I knew the people that were there that he wanted to meet with. And I just 
10 kind of thought it would be better to --for him to keep some distance and try to keep a 
11 clear head for the next day and to not entertain some of the ideas that I knew some of 
12 the people there had been discussing previously, not specific to that night, but --
13 
14 Ms. Cheney. And what were some of those ideas? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I kind of knew the names of the people there and attributed 
15 those individuals to the ones propagating the election fraud claims, Dominion voting 
16 machines, Italian satellites, and that set off my radar. 
17 And I just personally wanted to keep --which may be selfish --but I personally 
18 wanted to keep a little bit more of a distance from that, those ideals between Mr. 
19 Meadows and the President, especially the day before January 6th. 
20 But I didn't know much about the meetings that night. I just knew that there 
21 were people there. I figured it was more of like a place to congregate because there 
22 was also the --I don't know the freedom --there was a freedom rally or something 
23 outside. 
24 
25 Ms. Cheney. Freedom Plaza. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Freedom Plaza rally that night outside the hotel.  27 
Ms. Cheney. So Mr. Meadows did speak with Mr. Flynn by phone? 1 
2 Ms. Hutchinson. He connected --he connected with people there that night by 
3 phone. I don't know if he connected on his personal phone to Mr. Flynn's personal 
4 phone, if he had called a land line phone. I know that he had placed a call to the Willard 
5 Hotel that night --to the individuals at the Willard Hotel that night, I should say. 
6 
7 Ms. Cheney. And how do you know that? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Because he on his way out was talking about it. And then I 
8 talked with the guy --the men on his Secret Service detail that evening. 
9 And I always wait at the White House for them when they would get back. And I 
10 asked if he had made a call. And he said, yeah, he was talking to them the whole car 
11 ride home. 
12 So in my head --because sometimes Mr. Meadows would talk about making calls 
13 and I would follow up with him at 9 p.m. and say, did you connect with Governor X, 
14 Member V, these individuals? 
15 And I knew that was the only call that I was tracking that he had wanted to do. 
16 So I just asked them if he had made it on the car ride home. He said, yeah, he was still 
17 on the phone when he got out of the motorcade and went into his condo. So it was 
18 something I didn't need to follow back up on with him. 
19 Ms. Cheney. How long is the drive from the White House to Mr. Meadows' 
20 condo? 
21 Ms. Hutchinson. 15 minutes about. It's right --he lives right at the northern 
22 end Old Town. 
23 
24 Ms. Cheney. Okay. So do you know who he spoke to? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I don't. Just like the people at the Willard Hotel. You know, 
25 now I know some of the people that were there. I don't if the call was on a speaker  28 
1 phone or if he spoke with one individual. 
2 But I remember him saying, I need to give Flynn a call on his way out and could 
3 I --I don't know if he called Mr. Flynn directly or if he called somebody else that he knew 
4 was there. He had a lot of incoming that day from a lot of people, by text message and 
5 by phone. He had a lot of missed calls and texts that had gone unaddressed throughout 
6 the day. And I know those were some of them. 
7 Ms. Cheney. Did you know who, in addition to Mr. Flynn, do you also know who 
8 else was trying to reach him on the 5th? 
9 Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Boris Epshteyn had tried to. And that is the only person 
10 that I remember specifically, because I remember seeing Mr. Epshteyn's name come up 
11 on his phone. And I only remember that because sometimes he'd reach out to me when 
12 he was trying get a hold of Mark. And he hadn't reached out to me so I knew it was 
13 something that they probably had wanted to personally discuss and was fine not to have 
14 me involved. 
15 Ms. Cheney. And what did you think they wanted to discuss? 
16 Ms. Hutchinson. January 6th, the rally. I didn't really put much thought into it 
17 honestly. 
18 Ms. Cheney. So when the Secret Service came back and told you he was on the 
19 phone, did they tell you he spoke to Flynn, he spoke to Epshteyn? 
20 Ms. Hutchinson. No, I just said, I asked Mr. Meadows, I said, Mark --I think I said 
21 Leverage, is his code name --on the phone during the car ride home. I think I asked did 
22 Leverage make the phone call on the ride home? And they said, yeah, he talked to him 
23 the whole car ride home and on the way and up and into the condo. I said, you don't 
24 think I need to follow back up with him tonight? They said, no, he looked really tired. 
25 So I left him alone that night.  29 
Ms. Cheney. And so did he talk to any of those individuals on the 6th? 1 
2 
3 
4 Ms. Hutchinson. I'm not sure. I don't know everybody who was at the Willard. 
Ms. Cheney. How about Mr. Flynn and Mr. Epshteyn? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I don't think so. I would encourage you all to ask Mr. 
5 Meadows if you are ever given the opportunity to. 
6 I don't think so. I personally don't remember him having a conversation on the 
7 phone or by text with either of them that day. But I didn't have insight on everything 
8 that he was doing at all times. 
9 Ms. Cheney. Were you familiar with a phone call --well, do you know a person 
10 name Stewart Rhodes? 
11 
12 
13 Ms. Hutchinson. The name sounds familiar. R-h-o-d-e-s? 
Ms. Cheney. Uh-huh. 
Ms. Hutchinson. The name sounds familiar. I don't --I don't know who it is or 
14 who they are affiliated with off the top of my head. 
15 
16 him? 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 Ms. Cheney. Are you familiar with any conversations Mr. Meadows had with 
Ms. Hutchinson. No. 
Mr. Passantino. It's okay if you don't know. 
Ms. Cheney. Yeah. 
Ms. Hutchinson. S-t-u-a-r-t? 
Ms. Cheney. I think it's e-w-a-r-t. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Not that it matters. I was just trying to envision like if --I 
23 don't --I don't think so. I don't recall if he had conversations with Mr. or Mrs. Rhodes. 
24 Ms. Cheney. Are you aware of any phone calls --Mr. Rhodes made a phone call 
25 to the White House at 5 p.m. on the 6th. Let me rephrase that. Mr. Rhodes is  30 
1 reported to have made a phone call to someone connected to Mr. Trump at 5 p.m. on the 
2 6th. Are you aware of who he may have called? 
3 
4 
5 Ms. Hutchinson. I'm not. 
Ms. Cheney. Do you know if Mr. Meadows talked to Phil Waldron on the 6th? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I don't recall if he talked to Mr. Waldron on the 6th. He had 
6 talked to him in the days leading up to the 6th, I know, and Mr. Waldron had reached out 
7 to me after the 6th to be connected to him. And I remember flagging up for Mr. 
8 Meadows and I don't think he took action on it at that point. I don't know if he had a 
9 conversation with him on the 6th. 
10 If you don't mind, I don't know if I'm allowed to ask questions. 
11 
12 
13 Ms. Cheney. Sure. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Was he at the Willard Hotel? Was he part of the --
Mr. Passantino. You know, it's probably better that you --I mean, I know it kind 
14 of like pains you not to know the answer to questions, but I think they would prefer 
15 accurate testimony without sort of things getting injected into your head. 
16 Ms. Cheney. Sorry. That's so you don't --Mr. Meadows spoke to 
17 Mr. Waldron --
18 Ms. Hutchinson. The only reason I asked about the Willard Hotel is because 
19 Mr. Giuliani brought a bunch of people back into the tent that Mr. Meadows had spoken 
20 to. Mr. Waldron and Mr. Giuliani frequently had been together. So if he was in the 
21 group talking to Mr. Giuliani, if Mr. Meadows was in the group --
22 Ms. Cheney. Before the siege or during the siege. 
23 Ms. Hutchinson. Right. If he was Mr. Giuliani at that time, then they would 
24 have had a conversation. But I don't recall them having a phone conversation or Mr. 
25 Waldron coming to our office that afternoon. I wasn't in the office the entire afternoon,  31 
1 though, so I don't if he had come in at all. I don't think so. 
2 Ms. Cheney. So Mr. Giuliani brought a group of people who were --had been at 
3 the Willard into the tent? 
4 Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Giuliani was at the rally site prior to our arrival. Once we 
5 had arrived, he brought a group --and I don't remember who was in the group, several 
6 men, one woman --into the tent. He had one of the campaign staffers bring them back 
7 into the tent once the motorcade had gotten to the rally site and everybody had 
8 offloaded from the motorcade. 
9 
10 Ms. Cheney. But then do you know who that was that was with him? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I don't. 
11 Ms. Cheney. Okay. I think that's everything I have on this issue. There are a 
12 couple of other issues. I don't know~ if you have anything else on this particular 
13 issue before I go to the next? 
14 Sure. 
15 Ms. Hutchinson, you mentioned that the President --or Mr. Meadows said that 
16 the President had expressed anger at people who were saying to do more, telling him do 
17 more on the 6th. 
18 Do you know how the President expressed that anger? Did Mr. Meadows tell 
19 you what the President said or did that suggested he was angry? 
20 Ms. Hutchinson. I remember the tone of Mr. Meadows' voice how the President 
21 was communicating. And just by the nature of what Mr. Meadows had said, which was 
22 he's not happy with people who are saying he's not doing enough, that coupled with me 
23 going down and hearing one portion of a conversation at a louder volume, being able to 
24 put two and two together to know that he was yelling, I don't know specifically at 
25 somebody or just to the room general frustration he was expressing.  32 
1 But I don't --I don't really know how much further than that.  33 
1 
2 [3:12 p.m.] 
3 Okay. 
4 Ms. Cheney. When you say more boisterous conversation and he was yelling, 
5 what did you hear? 
6 Ms. Hutchinson. Loud. Even when you're standing in the butler's pantry, it's 
7 not soundproof. So you can still hear, even if a conversation, like, think you could 
8 probably hear if you're quiet enough. So I mean, he was yelling. You could hear. 
9 Ms. Cheney. Mr. Trump yelling? 
10 Ms. Hutchinson. Correct. 
11 Ms. Cheney. And what was he yelling? 
12 Ms. Hutchinson. He was frustrated. Well, let me back up. 
13 The first time that I'd gone towards the butler's pantry that afternoon when I had 
14 Mr. Jordan on the phone, and they were talking about Mr. Pence and the courage in 
15 doing the right thing, and what should he be doing, what he's not doing. And that was a 
16 pretty loud conversation. 
17 But then just throughout the afternoon there were times that I had walked past, 
18 and I could just in passing or if I was talking to hear --I'm trying to be 
19 careful with expletives. 
20 Ms. Cheney. No. No. 
21 Ms. Hutchinson. What the F else should I be doing? What else can I be doing? 
22 Everybody has their opinions. Who should I be listening to you? Which was I think 
23 fairly common in our White House. There was frequently people in and out of the Oval 
24 Office that he admittedly enjoys having a lot of opinions and personalities around. But I 
25 think to say it was a little too much and it was wearing on Mr. Meadows' patience too.  34 
BY 1 
2 Q When you just said that you heard someone saying what the F more could I 
3 be doing or something to that effect, that was the President saying that? 
4 A Correct. 
5 Q Do you know if Mr. Meadows gave him options of what he could be doing to 
6 deal with the attack on the Capitol? 
7 A I know Mr. Meadows laid out several options that afternoon. I don't know 
8 all of them specifically, but, again, keeping it broad, you can call it off, you can toe the 
9 line, you can get other people's ideas, which are, you know, play the blame game with 
10 things. 
11 But I wasn't around him enough that afternoon at all to, you know, reiterate any 
12 conversations that were had. This was a few times I had walked by and overheard 
13 yelling and general frustration being expressed. 
14 It was a stressful time too, so we were trying to kind of keep tabs on things. And 
15 Mr. Meadows was in his office. I had ducked out at one point just to walk by to see if I 
16 had thought that things had tampered down or if Mr. Meadows should go back to the 
17 dining room. But I wasn't in the room with him. 
Q Okay. You mentioned someone named Who is that? 18 
19 
20 
21 A So the President has a that works the Oval Office dining room. 
I can't remember -last name. I think he's still at the White House though. 
And it's a military assignment for them. They work with White House mess, and 
22 the valets are the ones that prepare the President's meals throughout the day. If he has 
23 any requests when he's in the Oval Office or Oval Office dining room. 
24 -· 
25 Q  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 Q And where was he stationed, to the best of your knowledge, January 6th, 
8 specifically the afternoon? 
9 
10 
11 A 
Q 
A In the butler's pantry area. I don't remember if [inaudible]. 
Does he have a desk there? 
No. It's very small. Maybe like 3 feet by 4 feet, cabinets and like a little 
12 refrigerator. And he normally would stand there and keep his phone on the counter. 
13 And, I mean, when he's standing there, his shoulders almost --like they would almost 
14 reach the entrance to the dining room door. 
15 Q That's the same place where you said you were when you overheard some 
16 of what was going on in the Oval dining room? 
17 A I would frequently go stand with-right there just throughout the 10, 35 
18 9 months of Mr. Meadows' tenure. Mr. Meadows spent a lot of time in the dining room. 
19 If he ever needed something, our office wasn't far. But sometimes it was easier if I was 
20 closer to where he was so he could just pop his head out and tell me what he needed. 
21 So I would stand in the butler's pantry with him, but immediately outside of it, and I 
22 would face inward towards him. 
23 
24 
25 Mr. Passantino. Sorry to interrupt. What was that exhibit number? 
-43. 
BY  36 
1 Q Did he tell you anything that he had heard that you didn't hear and have 
2 already told us about that went on in the Oval that day? 
3 A Nothing of specifics. He said to me at one point, the chief's hot right now. 
4 And I remember thinking, like, that's kind of an odd thing for him to say to me. But I 
5 took it more as a warning to stay away from any conflicts that were. 
6 
7 
8 Q 
A 
Q "Chief" being Mr. Meadows? 
Correct. 
Okay. You also mentioned, when Ms. Cheney was asking you some 
9 questions, that Mr. Meadows' phones were on your desk for at least part of the 
10 afternoon on the 6th and that people were texting him, calling him. 
11 Was he aware that people were texting him and calling him on the afternoon of 
12 the 6th? 
13 A I told him when he came back to the office at one point, I don't know which 
14 time or which --I'm sorry, it's incredibly unhelpful --but I remember saying your phones 
15 are blowing up. He said, I'll handle it later. And I remember shutting off his personal 
16 phone because it was just vibrating. I didn't find it helpful to have it continue to vibrate 
17 if he wasn't going to do anything with it. 
18 Q We know that one of the people who was texting Mr. Meadows was 
19 Mr. Trump's son, Donald Jr. 
20 Do you know why Mr. Donald Trump, Jr., was trying to get ahold of Mr. Meadows 
21 that afternoon? 
22 A At the time, no. I mean, now that the texts have been publicly released, I 
23 could infer. But at the time, I wasn't reading any of his texts. And we had just seen 
24 Mr. Junior --Mr. Trump Jr., Donald Jr., earlier that day, so it wasn't really something that I 
25 thought was worth him --me giving the phone to him and saying you need to call him  37 
1 back right now. 
2 Q Okay. And when you say you saw him earlier that day, you're talking about 
3 the morning before the rally on the Ellipse? 
4 
5 
6 too? 
7 A 
Q 
A Right. He came back to the White House too briefly. 
Do you know if he, Mr. Trump, Jr., spoke to the President that afternoon 
When we first got back to the White House, he did. He was in the Oval 
8 dining room and Ms. Guilfoyle was as well. I didn't see them in there. I remember 
9 Mr. Ornate telling me, he came in, said if the chief wants to go down, Don Jr., Kimberly 
10 are in the Oval dining room. And I said, okay, I'll let him know. 
11 And I remember telling Mr. Meadows that Don Jr. and KG were in the dining 
12 room. And he said, all right, thanks for letting me know, and he didn't go down. 
13 
14 
15 Q 
A 
Q 
16 going there. Do you know what they were talking about? 
I don't. 
And you spoke a little bit about the Willard and Mr. Meadows potentially 
17 Are you aware of a meeting the day before --well, to be clear, January the 4th at 
18 the Trump International Hotel with several Senators, including Senator, I believe, Cramer? 
19 
20 A 
Q Could you repeat the question? 
Sure. Are you aware of a meeting with several Senators at the Trump 
21 International Hotel on the 4th, with a number of Senators, including Senator Cramer, who 
22 I believe is from North Dakota? 
23 A He is. At the time, I wasn't. I've heard since and read since about 
24 meetings. But I don't remember Mr. Meadows ever saying he wanted to go to that with 
25 the Senators. It's possible that he had conversations with it, but he never said anything  38 
1 to me, which when he elevated something like that to me, I took it as a legitimate action 
2 he wanted to take, both as a conduit service, but also somebody that would go with him. 
3 And I don't recall him mentioning anything about that. 
4 Q I believe Senator Johnson was also at that meeting at the Trump 
5 International Hotel on the 4th. 
6 A My timeline could be off, but it might have been the night that he went to 
7 Georgia to have a rally, which is probably why he didn't say anything about going because 
8 he traveled on that trip to Georgia. 
9 Now, that's the wrong day. It's moot then. Sorry. But I believe he went to 
10 Georgia on January 4th. 
11 
12 Q Okay. Thank you, Ms. Cheney. 
Ms. Hutchinson. I don't want to be a pain, but maybe in 2 to 5 minutes could we 
13 take a restroom break. 
14 
15 
16 - Let's go off the record. 
[Recess.] 
~ It's 3:29, and we are resuming the transcribed interview of Ms. 
17 Cassidy Hutchinson. 
18 B 
19 Q So one thing, I do want to go back, Ms. Hutchinson. Ms. Cheney at the 
20 beginning asked you about what you heard about the President's reaction to the hang 
21 Mike Pence tweets, and you relayed what Mr. Meadows told you or the best recollection 
22 you have for what Mr. Meadows told you, but you said hypothetically. You said 
23 hypothetically, perhaps he should be hanged or something to that effect. 
24 I just want to be very clear, though, the words that you told Ms. Cheney were 
25 what you heard Mr. Meadows tell you to the best of your recollection, correct?  39 
1 A It wasn't a conversation from Mr. Meadows directed at me. It was, he 
2 came back into the office, and kind of was having a conversation with Mr. Cipollone and 
3 Mr. Herschmann, but there was --I mean, their bodies also were facing the main part of 
4 our office, and that's where I was sitting too. So it wasn't directed to intend to bring me 
5 into the conversation, but also not close me out of it at the time. 
6 Q Okay. So the words you said, though, were what you remember Mr. 
7 Meadows saying to that group? 
8 A Correct. I remember the quote about Mr. Trump with Mr. Pence and about 
9 the hanging. I remember hanging chant. I don't remember hanging tweets. 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 Mr. Passantino. He said tweets. 
- l'msorry. 
Ms. Hutchinson. It could have been a tweet with -­
You're exactly right. It was a chant. 
Ms. Hutchinson. No. No. It's okay. 
15 But --and then I remember --so there's that portion. Then I remember it was 
16 the --I guess it's important --in my opinion it's important. Like he often would say 
17 something, and then Mr. Trump would often say something and then retort to the room 
18 and he would say, well, what do you think, Cassidy, what do you think, Mark? Perhaps 
19 he should, right. Do you agree with this? 
20 So I took that part as more of a conversational, do you agree with me, is this 
21 something that is crazy for me to say or think right now? And that's when Mr. Cipollone 
22 said he's got to do something. And they went to the office. 
23 So, again, I am sorry. I wish I remembered the whole conversation verbatim. 
24 I'm trying to be as helpful as I can with that. 
25 - No. That's fine. Thank.  40 
Ms. Hutchinson. It's difficult. 
That was helpful. 1 
2 
3 Ms. Cheney. And then tell us about what happened. They went into the office, 
4 and then what happened when they came out of the office? 
5 
6 
7 Ms. Hutchinson. They went back to the Oval dining room. 
Ms. Cheney. All of them together? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Uh-huh. I don't remember if anybody else stepped into his 
8 office during that specific timeframe because, to the best of my recollection, that's the 
9 first time that he had come back to our office since first going down to the Oval dining 
10 room. And then after that, he was frequently back and forth, sometimes every 
11 3 minutes, sometimes every 25, throughout the afternoon. 
12 So I don't --and throughout the other times that he would be back and forth, he 
13 would bring different people back. But I don't remember if that specific break from the 
14 Oval dining room he had anybody else in his office besides Mr. Herschmann and 
15 Mr. Cipollone. They're the only two that I'm comfortable saying because I do know they 
16 were in there with him at that time. 
17 
18 
19 Ms. Cheney. And so then they went back down to the Oval. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Correct. 
Ms. Cheney. Do you know --so when you got the notification about this tweet 
20 that Mike Pence doesn't have the courage, do you remember if Mr. Meadows was in his 
21 office then? 
22 Ms. Hutchinson. He was in the Oval dining room at the time. That's why I think 
23 that the conversation happened afterwards, again just trying to piece together the 
24 timeline. But between them breaking into the Capitol --because he was still in his office 
25 when they broke. He was sitting on his couch when they had broken into the Capitol.  41 
1 Because I had seen on Twitter they had broken into the Capitol. And that's when I went 
2 into his office. He was in there by himself. And I told him, I told him a few times 
3 beforehand I think you should go down to the dining room, like, they're getting closer. 
4 Mr. Williamson at one point had gone in prior to them getting into the Capitol and 
5 said they're getting closer. So there's a few people that had warned him. But I 
6 remember specifically once they had broken into the Capitol, I said, Mark, they're in the 
7 Capitol, you should go down and talk to the President and let him know right now. 
8 So that's what he did. He was like all right and got up and went. So that's 2:12. 
9 This tweet goes out at 2:24. He came back after this tweet went out. 
10 Ms. Cheney. And that's when he came back with Mr. Cipollone and 
11 Mr. Herschmann. 
12 
13 
14 
15 Ms. Hutchinson. Correct. 
Ms. Cheney. Okay. We're going to shift topics now. 
Did you ever see Mr. Meadows destroy documents? 
Ms. Hutchinson. So the protocol for White House --I don't know if you're 
16 allowed to chime in and help explain the process. 
17 
18 Mr. Passantino. You want me to chime in? 
The Witness. So there is --every administration has something called burn bags, 
19 and there's --I forget the different levels of them, but you're not supposed to put any 
20 paper in the trash cans. They're all supposed to go in burn bags. There's regular burn 
21 bags, and then there's different classifications if there's classified material. There's top 
22 secret and those are normally just from NSC. 
23 So Mr. Meadows did use his burn bags as most staff do. All staff at the White 
24 House do on campus. And I believe --I mean, it's standing protocol, I believe, for 
25 previous and future administrations too for recordkeeping purposes.  42 
1 Ms. Cheney. And did you ever see Mr. Meadows burn documents in his 
2 fireplace? 
3 Ms. Hutchinson. So the Presidential Records Act only asks that you keep the 
4 original copy of a document. So, yes. However, I don't know if they were the first or 
5 original copies of anything. It's entirely possible that he had put things in his fireplace 
6 that he also would have put into a burn bag that there were duplicates of or that there 
7 was an electronic copy of. 
8 Mr. Passantino. I don't think she's asking you to, like, come up with a legal 
9 opinion, right or wrong. I think she's just asking sort of a factual question, which I think 
10 you've answered. 
11 So don't, unless you're specifically asked, feel an obligation to extrapolate to legal 
12 conclusions. You can go wherever you want with that. But I just want to caution you. 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 The Witness. Right. I meant just to draw the distinction between burn bags. 
Ms. Cheney. So did you see Mr. Meadows put documents in his fireplace? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Yes, ma'am. 
Ms. Cheney. And do you know what the documents were? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I don't know. 
Ms. Cheney. How frequently did you see him do this. 
Ms. Hutchinson. I mean, it's hard --I want to say once a week or twice --it's --I 
20 can recall specific times that I did. Maybe a dozen, maybe just over a dozen, but this is 
21 over a period December through mid-January too, which is when we started lighting the 
22 fireplace. 
23 Ms. Cheney. And you said you could recall specific times? 
24 Ms. Hutchinson. I could just --I remember thinking back like it wasn't like I saw 
25 him do it daily. I don't remember if there were 2 weeks maybe that one time had  43 
1 passed where he hadn't or I hadn't seen him do it. 
2 But roughly a dozen times I remember seeing him, and it was when we would 
3 have the GSA, General Services Administrative staff come light it first thing in the 
4 morning, and then they had logs next to his fireplace and his closet too. 
5 So throughout the day, he would put more logs on the fireplace to keep it burning 
6 throughout the day. And I recall roughly a dozen times where he would take the --I 
7 don't know the formal name for what it's called that covers the fireplace --but take that 
8 off and then throw a few more pieces of paper in with it when he put more logs on the 
9 fireplace. 
10 Ms. Cheney. And could you see him do this from your desk? 
11 Ms. Hutchinson. I was in the office with him. I couldn't see the fireplace from 
12 my desk? 
13 
14 
15 Ms. Cheney. Did he explain what he was doing? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I never asked. 
Ms. Cheney. Do you recall timeframes? So were these after particular 
16 meetings or specific issues or documents? 
17 
18 Ms. Hutchinson. He was in meetings all day long, so it was after meetings. 
I don't know specific documents. I know maybe three or four times --between 
19 two and four times, he had had Mr. Perry in his office right before. 
20 Ms. Cheney. Do you know what Mr. Perry was talking to him about? 
21 
22 
23 Ms. Hutchinson. Election issues. 
Ms. Cheney. Anything more specific than that? 
Ms. Hutchinson. The Vice President's role on January 6th. I'm trying to think 
24 the first time Mr. Perry was at the White House with all of this. Mid-December, I 
25 believe, Mr. Perry started coming to meet with Mr. Meadows about what he believed  44 
1 could happen on January 6th, and they were preparing various PowerPoints and he would 
2 bring physical material. 
3 I remember one time he --his door was propped open. He put a few things in 
4 the fireplace. And there were a few people in the office with him. Mr. Perry was in 
5 the office with him, but I don't remember who else was. Mr. Perry brought a few other 
6 people to meet with him. 
7 But I don't know what the documents were or if they were original copies, I mean, 
8 or the only copy of something because he --there's a process at the White House to 
9 destroy and burn things. 
10 Ms. Cheney. Like the burn bags that you had mentioned. 
11 Ms. Hutchinson. Correct. 
12 Ms. Cheney. Did you see this --you mentioned between December and January 
13 about a dozen times. Was this something that you had seen over the course of the time 
14 you worked for Mr. Meadows? 
15 Ms. Hutchinson. No, because we only had the fireplace burning when it got cold 
16 out that winter. 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 Ms. Cheney. Did you see him removing boxes of documents? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Not boxes, no. 
Ms. Cheney. Any numbers of documents taken out of the White House? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Yes, ma'am. 
Ms. Cheney. And just tell us the circumstances of that. 
22 Ms. Hutchinson. At the end of the day sometimes he would --most of the time 
23 he left without anything. But sometimes he would leave with a red manilla envelope. 
24 I don't know what he would bring home. I never asked him. 
25 But he had a stack of red manilla envelopes in his office. And whenever we  45 
1 would prepare him things to bring home I always put it in --I had a black chief of staff 
2 binder that had the Presidential seal and said chief of staff on the bottom if I ever needed 
3 to send him home with briefing materials or things that we had gone through throughout 
4 the day to review. I would just put it in there for him and put it in his detail car before 
5 we would leave. 
6 And he always knew that too. [Inaudible] sit in the back seat so he could look at 
7 it them when he was driving home or read it when he was driving to work next morning. 
8 So when he would bring things out, I would assume that it would be things that he had 
9 personally received or collected that he wanted to review. 
10 
11 
12 
13 Ms. Cheney. And so do you have any idea what those documents were? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I never asked him. 
Ms. Cheney. Was there any reason why he would need to do that? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Bring documents home? I mean, if he didn't have time to go 
14 over it during the day and he wanted to do it at night. Although, I think he was fairly 
15 confident in the materials that I would send home with him too, so I don't know why they 
16 weren't given to either Ms. Thurston or myself to put in that binder. But I never asked 
17 him, though, why he didn't give us those things. 
18 Ms. Cheney. So sometimes he would give you things, like put this in the binder? 
19 Ms. Hutchinson. Correct. He would forward emails or say print this and I'll 
20 read this tonight or if he got something from the Office of the Staff Secretary to bring 
21 home that didn't require immediate action that afternoon or evening, he would bring it 
22 home to read it. And sometimes Mr. Lyons would drop off things for him to read and he 
23 would just stick it in the binder for him to go home with. 
24 So this wasn't anything that --I don't want to speak on Ms. Thurston's behalf. 
25 don't believe her and I really ever even had a conversation about it. But I think it was  1 just a mutual understanding that these are things he wants to keep private to himself. 
2 Ms. Cheney. Were they classified? 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 Ms. Hutchinson. I'm not sure. 
Ms. Cheney. Did you ever see him take anything classified out? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Yes, ma'am. 
Ms. Cheney. How many times. 
Ms. Hutchinson. In this period? 
Ms. Cheney. First, yeah. 
Ms. Hutchinson. I don't know. Because our classified things would come in 
10 from an envelope from the Situation Room. Maybe between four and seven times. 
11 Probably closer to seven. I know that sounds overly specific, but it definitely was less 
12 than ten. 46 
13 But sometimes he would carry out a manilla envelope in the red --I don't know if 
14 manilla is the right word --red folding envelope. 
15 Ms. Cheney. Yeah. 
16 Ms. Hutchinson. And the ones that actually sealed shut are the ones from the 
17 Situation Room that have classified stuff or from various agencies too. And sometimes I 
18 remember seeing like a brown folder sticking out of the red folder. 
19 But I didn't really --I didn't ask him what it was or how it was received. And he 
20 had meetings throughout the day. There were people constantly bringing materials. 
21 He had people would come up from the Situation Room frequently, people from DOD 
22 that would come and meet with him and bring him materials. And I just never --I didn't 
23 like to look through his stacks of things. 
24 
25 Ms. Cheney. Did you see him do that outside of this time period? 
Ms. Hutchinson. There were a few times throughout his tenure as chief of staff  47 
1 where he would bring home things from the Situation Room. But most frequently I 
2 remember him bringing them back the next day, because I remember he would give it to 
3 Ms. Thurston to bring that back to the Situation Room and she would bring his --the 
4 Presidential daily brief folder back down sometimes if our briefer didn't come that 
5 morning. 
6 Ms. Cheney. And so in this period, did you see him give these back to Ms. 
7 Thurston? 
8 
9 
10 Ms. Hutchinson. No. 
Ms. Cheney. Were they out of the Presidential daily brief? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I'm not sure. And to be fair, I don't know if these were PDB 
11 files in the envelopes or if they were just --I just remember a handful of times seeing --it 
12 looked a little bit more full and seeing the brown envelope sticking out of the red folder. 
13 And that's always where he kept classified things. And even if it hadn't come 
14 from the Situation Room, sometimes he would take other documents and reuse old 
15 folders, because those would be burn bags if they're not returned to the Situation Room. 
16 But he sometimes would keep them and stick other things in them. So I don't know if it 
17 was official material from the President's daily brief or if it was from other actors within 
18 the executive branch. 
19 Ms. Cheney. But you didn't see him bring these back and give them to Ms. 
20 Thurston? 
21 Ms. Hutchinson. It's possible he did and I just didn't see it. But I 
22 didn't --normally, he didn't bring the red envelope back at all. 
23 Ms. Cheney. Okay. In the text that you --I think it's exhibit 28 --you --there's 
24 a text, I think it's between you and Ms. Thurston. It may not be exhibit 28. 
25 - You have the right one. It's wrong in the binder. Exhibit 25.  48 
1 Try that one. 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 Ms. Cheney. So in that exhibit --I don't think it is that one. Maybe page 8. 
~ Here you go, Ms. Cheney. 
Ms. Cheney. I think it's 25. I think you're right.. It's page 7. 
Ms. Hutchinson. I'm sorry. I didn't realize there's multiple pages in it. 
Ms. Cheney. So at the bottom of that exhibit, you're texting Ms. Thurston, "I'm 
7 going to give him a call this afternoon about HPSCI. The reality of them having unlimited 
8 access to his office to review docs is dwindling." This was on December 28th. 
Can you tell us about that text, what that means? 9 
10 Ms. Hutchinson. I wonder if this is cut off. I believe we briefly talked about this 
11 in the second deposition. 
12 He met with Mr. Nunes and the staff director, I'm being 
13 sensitive because of the --I don't know if things were declassified or what it was. But 
14 they had met about at the time what was classified information, and Mr. Nunes, Mr. 
15 Meadows, and- agreed that they would get these documents from wherever 
16 they've come from and bring them to the White House. And Mr. Meadows had 
17 hypothetically --it wasn't hypothetical --Mr. Meadows had offered for the HPSCI staff to 
18 use his office throughout the day while he was there to --he had a long conference 
19 table --to start going through everything, taking notes and discussing what to do with 
20 these documents. 
21 And from the start I didn't agree with this approach because he's constantly in his 
22 office making calls and they needed a different space to do this in, although he thought 
23 that he could do both in tandem. 
24 So this is me letting Liza know, Ms. Thurston know that I was going to address it 
25 with Mr. Meadows to try to find a different meeting spot and strongly encourage that so  49 
1 we could not have his entire day interrupted. 
2 Ms. Cheney. So just so we're clear, I think in the last deposition we talked about 
3 January 2nd and 3rd, which was a Saturday and a Sunday, when-and. 
4 _, there were a number of HPSCI staffers who came. 
5 This is December 28th, so that I'm trying to --
6 Ms. Hutchinson. They had talked about doing this December --I remember the 
7 first time he mentioned bringing HPSCI in --perhaps December 18th, 17th or 18th, but he 
8 had had said it more as we're going to look at doing this in the next couple weeks. Can 
9 you talk to Mr. Nunes and see, like, what works best for them? 
10 So I remember reaching out to Mr. Nunes and him saying like, let's connect right 
11 after Christmas. And Mr. Meadows was in Georgia, so I called Mr. Nunes, I believe, 
12 somewhere --maybe the 26th or 27th and had talked to him. And then he had come in. 
13 I don't remember --I don't have a calendar in front of me. 
14 Ms. Cheney. The 2nd and 3rd was Saturday and Sunday. So the 28th is a 
15 Monday. 
16 
17 Ms. Hutchinson. The 28th was Monday? 
Ms. Cheney. Uh-huh. 
18 Ms. Hutchinson. So I believe Mr. Nunes and-came in on the 29th to 
19 meet with him about this protocol. Mr. Meadows and I had talked on the 27th or 28th 
20 about when we do this in the next couple of days, I want them to use my office. And 
21 had I initially sort of indicated that I was pushing back, but I hadn't fully said no, it's not 
22 probable. 
23 So I sent this text to Ms. Thurston in advance of them coming in to meet with him 
24 prior to the document review all happening and just let her know that I am going to work 
25 with either the Situation Room or somewhere else in the West Wing to reserve a spot  50 
1 because I don't want them using Mark's office, Mr. Meadows' office all day long. 
2 So then Mr. Nunes and-came in, and then the rest of the staff came in 
3 in the next couple of days with everything. I thought there was something in here. 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 - Can I help you with that timeline-wise? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah. 
BY 
Q Only because I'm just looking through these messages. 
If you go to page 12, there's a long message, and it's from December 30th, it says, 
9 "Tomorrow TBD if he wants HPSCI to come in. We just got the docs, him and Pat are 
10 sorting through them now." 
11 Is that the document review day or is this the day they came in to discuss 
12 protocol? 
13 A So they would have come in --so Mr. Nunes and- came in then on 
14 the 29th and discussed it with him. And then Mr. Nunes did not come back. 
15 On December 31st --or December 30th --we got all the documents. I don't 
16 recall who delivered them. I believe somebody from the Situation Room though. 
17 There was a bunch of them. They came up on a dolly in a few boxes and I had to sign for 
18 them. 
19 And then he called White House counsel down. They were loosely looking 
20 through things. And then-was bringing some more of the HPSCI staffers 
21 back December 31st to look through them. 
22 Q How many times did they come back to actually look at the documents? 
23 Because there's another message on page 18 that says, "For Saturday he plans to meet 
24 with HPSCI at 11 a.m. in his office." 
25 A You said page -- 51 
1 Q 18. 
2 A Yeah. Three or four times. I communicated with-on my work 
3 phone, though. So I don't --and I had talked to him every day that they needed to come 
4 back in. I believe it was 3 days total. And then the last day was like this is what we 
5 recommend doing. 
6 And Mr. Meadows didn't stay, as was predicted, didn't have time to stay with 
7 them the entire time that they were reviewing documents. So we found a separate 
8 space for them. And then found time at the end of the third day. I don't think it was 4 
9 days. I think it was 3 days total they came in and they all sat down and went over their 
10 findings. 
11 
12 
13 
14 Q Okay. 
Ms. Cheney. And did Mr. Nunes --he only came the first time? 
Ms. Hutchinson. He only came the first day? 
Ms. Cheney. And without asking you to talk about classified information, which 
15 it sounds like we may have to do, why were --why was HPSCI coming to Mr. Meadows' 
16 office to review documents? 
17 
18 
19 Ms. Hutchinson. I'm not sure. It's just what he had asked for. 
Ms. Cheney. And so how was the request made for the documents? 
Ms. Hutchinson. The first I remember hearing about it was when he had said to 
20 me, can you reach out --he said Devin --can you reach out to Mr. Nunes? He has some 
21 documents that we want to review. He'll talk to you about how to get them here. 
22 
23 So I called Mr. Nunes and he said, Mark talked to me about that. Can you reach 
out to I don't know who has them right now. I think it was just 
24 above --or below his pay grade at that point. He's not running around trying to locate 
25 documents from Mr. -- 52 
1 Ms. Cheney. And so did you have a specific set of document ID numbers or --
2 Ms. Hutchinson. I signed for them, so I would assume they would have been on 
3 that paper, but I don't have the paper? 
4 
5 Ms. Cheney. How did the Situation Room know which documents to give you? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I don't know if it was the Situation Room that brought them or 
6 if it was somebody, a staffer from --I don't know --because they came from the Hill, I 
7 don't know how, like what the protocol is for releasing them. I don't know if they have 
8 to go through the FBI or the CIA, or if it was something they could have sent to the 
9 Situation Room to print and bind there. 
10 So when I say somebody from the Situation Room came up, it was somebody with 
11 a blue pass, a blue hard pass on the dolly. They were authorized to handle classified 
12 information. But I don't know if --
13 
14 Ms. Cheney. What the procedure was? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah. If it was a Situation Room staffer that was responsible 
15 for collecting and delivering them or if it was more of a we picked these up and here's the 
16 delivery you all had requested. I'm just not sure how that's facilitated. 
17 Ms. Cheney. Okay. So these were documents that came to the White House 
18 from the Hill? And I'm not asking about the procedure. 
19 Ms. Hutchinson. Yes. HPSCI had seen these documents at some point and had 
20 these documents at some point and were aware of the contents of these documents. 
21 am not sure if it's something that the Republican HPSCI staffers had deeply looked into or 
22 if it was more the intention to bring them to the White House to look into them. 
23 Ms. Cheney. And why would they need to bring them to the White House to 
24 look into them? 
25 Ms. Hutchinson. I don't know.  1 Ms. Cheney. Because HPSCI obviously has a SCIF and all sorts of --I mean 
2 it's --the --it's unusual. 
3 Ms. Hutchinson. We had been to the HPSCI SCIF before, so I don't know. 
4 don't know why he, Mr. Meadows, wanted them at the White House. 
Ms. Cheney. Were they election related? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I don't know. 53 
5 
6 
7 Ms. Cheney. And again, do you know the topic, whether you can say the topic or 
8 not? You don't have to say the topic, but are you aware of what the topic was? 
9 Ms. Hutchinson. I'm aware of one of the topics. But I believe --I know there 
10 are multiple, but I'm only aware of one of them. 
11 
12 Ms. Cheney. And are you aware of why they needed to review them. 
Ms. Hutchinson. I didn't ask him. He asked me if I wanted to stay in the room 
13 while he initially met with them. All the HPSCI staff came the first day and met with him 
14 for about an hour. He asked if I wanted to stay in there with him. And I told him no. 
15 He said you have clearance, you can. I said it's okay. 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 Ms. Cheney. So that was December 31st. 
Ms. Hutchinson. 31st, I believe. The Saturday. 
Ms. Cheney. Okay. 
Ms. Hutchinson. So perhaps January 1st. 
Ms. Cheney. So --
Ms. Hutchinson. 
- in our office. 
brought all of his staff. I believe December 31st he met with Mr. Nunes and 
January 1st, 2021, was the first day that-had 
24 Ms. Cheney. And they didn't, nobody said anything about why they were 
25 bringing all the HPSCI staff?  54 
1 Ms. Hutchinson. [Nonverbal response.] 
2 Ms. Cheney. And how many --so I'm just trying to make sure we have this. So 
3 December 29th, I think we established Mr. Nunes and- came over for the first 
4 time. 
5 
6 
7 Ms. Hutchinson. I'm sorry if I'm getting my timeline -­
Ms. Cheney. It's okay. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Okay. So December 29th, you're right, would have been the 
8 day Mr. Nunes and-came. And then the one that I had seen where it said 
9 the White House --reviewing the --we had gotten everything on December 30th. So 
10 December 31st would have been the first day that-had brought all of his staff. 
11 Ms. Cheney. Okay. And then the --when you say him and Pat are sorting 
12 through them now, is that Pat Cipollone? 
13 Ms. Hutchinson. That's correct. 
14 Ms. Cheney. So did anyone else besides HPSCI staff review the documents while 
15 they were there? Was White House counsel in the room? 
16 
17 Ms. Hutchinson. No. It was HPSCI staff. 
Ms. Cheney. And you don't recall why they said they were coming to the White 
18 House to do this? 
19 Ms. Hutchinson. It's not that I don't recall, I don't think I ever knew. I didn't 
20 ask. I don't want to say brash when I say that. 
21 
22 Ms. Cheney. No. No. It's --if you didn't ask, you didn't ask. 
Okay. But you were aware of one of the topics, and so I assume we can make 
23 arrangements to get that information from you in a classified way so that we're sure 
24 we're not violating any of the rules. 
25 So then they reviewed the documents on the 1st and the 2nd, but you said you  55 
1 got another space for them. Where did they end up doing that? 
2 Ms. Hutchinson. So in our office there's the main office here. You walk into 
3 the main office, and if you're --I guess, if you're looking from the hallway into our office, 
4 you're looking at the main office. And Mr. Meadows' office to the right. To the left, 
5 there's another little office typically used for the deputy chief of staff. Mr. John Fleming 
6 sometimes would use that office space. He would also use an office upstairs. And he 
7 wasn't in for about 10 days during Christmas, so he put them in there for a little bit and 
8 then one of the days they went into the Roosevelt Room because it had a bigger table. 
9 
10 
11 
12 Ms. Cheney. Did you over hear them talking about why they were there? 
Ms. Hutchinson. [Nonverbal response.] 
Ms. Cheney. Talking about the subject matter? 
Ms. Hutchinson. No. - began to speak with me about it at one point, 
13 and I quickly changed the subject, not to be rude to our guests, but we were dealing with 
14 a lot of other things at the time, and I just didn't want to be really involved in this. 
15 
16 Ms. Cheney. Was there a reason why you didn't want to be involved in it? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I respected my security clearance, but I also respected the fact 
17 that I didn't fully understand the parameters of it. I never wanted to put myself in a 
18 position of knowing something that could fall out of what I was cleared to know or to put 
19 my clearance at risk. And I was always just very cautious about dealing with classified 
20 materials. 
21 So anything like this, even signing for the boxes, I said to Mr. Meadows, I asked if 
22 he would sign for them and he was on a call at the time. I just didn't want to potentially 
23 break any rules with my clearance that I didn't know I was authorized to make. 
24 Ms. Cheney. So you ended up signing for them? 
25 Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah. And, I mean, I have a TS/SCI clearance, so I could sign  56 
1 for them, yes. But I just didn't, in terms of the contents of them, I didn't want to put 
2 myself in a situation? 
3 Ms. Cheney. Did Mr. Meadows spend time reviewing the documents with the 
4 H PSCI staff? 
5 Ms. Hutchinson. So he went through everything first with Mr. Cipollone, but not 
6 super thoroughly. The first day the HPSCI staff came in, he spent about 2 hours with 
7 them, maybe a little bit more getting them started, kind of walking through, like, I guess 
8 what he expected from it. I don't remember. I ducked into the room at one point for 
9 this, and I remember him talking about, like, taking notes and being able to brief him at 
10 the end of it. And so they had a 2-hour closed-door conversation. So I wasn't sure 
11 they talked about the materials of it. 
12 And then at the end he spent probably about 2 to 3 hours talking to-
13 and maybe one or two of the other staffers. But Mr. Nunes never came back for that. 
14 And I didn't go into the room --or I stepped into the room one time during the final 
15 conversation to give him a --pass him a note on something when-was still in 
16 there. And I only remember-had some remark to me. And I mean that's 
17 pretty much the extent of --
18 Ms. Cheney. What did-say? 
19 Ms. Hutchinson. Something sarcastic, like, I don't know, about the election, are 
20 you stopping the steal out there or something? I don't know. Are you busy stopping 
21 the steal and that's not why you're meeting with us? Something along those lines. 
22 Ms. Cheney. When you say Mr. Cipollone and Mr. Meadows went through them 
23 but not in detail. 
24 Ms. Hutchinson. There's just a lot of papers. There's no way they could have 
25 gone through --that's what they were bringing the HPSCI staff in for.  57 
1 Ms. Cheney. I see. An did Mr. Cipollone come over to Mr. Meadows' office to 
2 go through them. 
3 
4 
5 Ms. Hutchinson. The first time, yeah. 
Ms. Cheney. How long did they spend doing that? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Now I wish I had the time-stamped text in front of me. 
6 Actually, I don't think this one was time stamped. I would say no more than 30 minutes, 
7 maybe an hour absolute max. 
8 But if I'm remembering this day correctly, maybe probably close to 30 minutes. 
9 And he had probably more of them going through to make sure what Mr. Meadows had 
10 requested had actually arrived and lined up with what they were expecting. 
11 
12 Ms. Cheney. So Mr. Meadows was told what to request by Mr. Nunes? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I don't know if he was told what to request by Mr. Nunes. 
13 think he brought Mr. Cipollone in so he could relay to Mr. Cipollone --so Mr. Meadows 
14 could relay to Mr. Cipollone what he was expecting to get so Mr. Cipollone could look at it 
15 and ensure that it --the documents produced had all arrived. 
16 
17 
18 Ms. Cheney. And so what happened at the end of this? 
Ms. Hutchinson. His meeting with Mr. Cipollone? 
Ms. Cheney. No. After they reviewed the documents. So I guess probably 
19 January 3rd is a Sunday. 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 Ms. Hutchinson. I don't know. 
Ms. Cheney. Did the documents get boxed back up and sent back down? 
Ms. Hutchinson. No. 
Ms. Cheney. What happened to the documents? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I guess --
Mr. Passantino. Do you want to talk?  1 
2 Ms. Hutchinson. Could we have just one second? 
[Recess.] 58  59 
1 
2 [4:22 p.m.] 
3 Ms. Cheney. So what happened to the documents at the end of this. 
4 Ms. Hutchinson. In the final days, this is after January 6th, January 18th I 
5 remember --I am thinking specifically about two of the main things that we are looking 
6 at --Mr. Meadows requested for the National Security Council staff to create I don't know 
7 how many duplicates of these documents for review. So they had 10 to 15 NSC staffers 
8 making copies. And it was --and they were both fairly large items. And they had 
9 gotten to us on the 19th. A good portion of January 19th was spent kind of raking 
10 through it one last time. I don't know where all of the items went. And some had 
11 been taken personally --not personal --like, personally by individuals involved. If have 
12 you further questions, I'd be happy to --
13 
14 Ms. Cheney. Taken by whom? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Meadows took a few --a few copies of each of the things I 
15 am thinking about. 
16 Ms. Cheney. Can you explain that a little bit more? 
17 Ms. Hutchinson. And he took of a couple of them home. He took a couple with 
18 the intention to give them to a few people on the out --in the private sector to review. 
19 don't know if they ever made it there. I didn't ask him if he delivered them. He 
20 made --now, I --I am trying to be careful, but there is these copies, and then there was a 
21 different version that he also had. I don't have any idea what happened to that one. 
22 The copies of this one, the ones that White House counsel had approved for several 
23 copies to be made. And Mr. Meadows also had copies of a previous version. I don't 
24 know how he personally distinguished between the two and which ones went where and 
25 which ones could have ended up in other people's hands or which ones just are  60 
1 unaccounted for. But I know he took a version of both for himself. And I know that he 
2 had versions of both that he wanted given to individuals in the private sector. And he 
3 gave me a copy to give to a Member of Congress, but then I told him no. And he --I 
4 gave him back that copy. So he then had that one in his possession. I think there 
5 probably was, that I am aware of, four copies of each version. 
6 
7 
8 
9 Ms. Cheney. So eight copies total. And which Member of Congress? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Leader McCarthy. 
Ms. Cheney. And this was on? 
Ms. Hutchinson. The 19th. And I --I remember calling Mr. McCarthy saying 
10 that I had this item for him from Mark, from Mr. Meadows at the time --I said Mark, 
11 but --and he had said to me: Oh, I don't want that. Why does he want me to have 
12 that? 
13 I said: I don't know. I don't think you should have it either. I am just going to 
14 give it to him if you are okay with that. I just want to make sure we are on the same 
15 page in case he says something to you about asking if you got it. I wanted to make sure 
16 my boss, if he were checking with me, that you didn't actually want it. 
17 
18 
19 He said: No, I don't --I don't want any of that. 
I said: Okay. 
And I hung up. And I just handed it to Mr. Meadows and said: I think we are 
20 going to just hold off on this right now. If he needs it, he knows how to get you in the 
21 next couple of weeks. 
22 
23 Ms. Cheney. And who in the private sector? 
Ms. Hutchinson. There were a few journalists that he wanted to get give this to. 
24 I don't know which ones. 
25 Ms. Cheney. Do you recall names?  61 
Ms. Hutchinson. I don't off the top of my head. There is a -- 1 
2 Mr. Passantino. Don't speculate. She wants to know what you now, but don't 
3 feel an obligation to guess. 
4 Ms. Hutchinson. I can see her face, but I don't remember her name. I will think 
5 about it and --I will think about it, and if I remember, I will tell you. 
6 
7 Ms. Cheney. Is she in television or --
Ms. Hutchinson. I think she does more just Conservative writing. I hadn't 
8 heard of this person, but I am also not a very --
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 Ms. Cheney. Was it Mollie Hemingway? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Yes. Mollie Hemingway. She has brown hair. 
Ms. Cheney. And she wrote a book called "Rigged"? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Yes. 
Ms. Cheney. Do you know if he gave them to her? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I'm not sure. Does she --I think she has a male counterpart 
15 too. Don Solomon? 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 Ms. Cheney. Yes --
Ms. Hutchinson. Okay, yeah, and Don Solomon. 
Ms. Cheney. So did --so eight copies of the documents were made -­
Ms. Hutchinson. Approximately. I --
Ms. Cheney. That you are aware of. And so, as best you can, can you try to 
21 recall what happened with each one of them or what you know? 
22 Ms. Hutchinson. No, I --he --I remember he gave me the copies to give to 
23 leader McCarthy. That was the one White House counsel and the NSC had approved. 
24 think --I think the declassified too. I am not --1 am not entirely sure. I didn't really ask 
25 many questions because I didn't really want to do anything with this at all. From my  62 
1 understanding, the copy that I was given was the one that was more acceptable to have 
2 in my possession I should say. 
3 Ms. Cheney. Because it was a lower level classification or --
4 Ms. Hutchinson. I think so. Or if it was already declassified. I'm not --I don't 
5 think it was declassified at that point, if it even has been since. But --I just know that 
6 there were other copies of it that was --that were more --that were more similar to the 
7 original copies that we had first received from HPSCI where there were copies of that one 
8 made also. I knew that wasn't the one in my possession. The only one I know that 
9 happened to it explicitly was the one that I had and I gave back to him. And I remember 
10 he brought several home the night of the 19th. I even believe I put one or two of them 
11 in his motorcade for him. I went down, and then I started carrying two boxes out. And 
12 I think he put two in a box, and I was carrying the box because the box didn't have a lid on 
13 it, and he brought them home. I know that he was with going to give them to --he had 
14 the intention to give to Mollie Hemingway and John Solomon that night, but I don't know 
15 if they ever made the trip or if they ever ended up in their hands. 
16 Ms. Cheney. And did you see him --do you know what happened to the four 
17 that were not --
18 Ms. Hutchinson. I --I think he took all of them, unless he gave one to somebody 
19 internally. I didn't count how many he took out. Also, this is just a rough estimate too. 
20 There could have been 10; there could have been seven, but unless he gave a copy to 
21 anybody internally. The last I had seen of one in somebody else's hands was my own, 
22 and that was also given back to him. 
23 Ms. Cheney. And he never told you if --what he did with them? 
24 Ms. Hutchinson. Next day was the 20th, and I only saw him very briefly that day. 
25 I think he spent 15 minutes. I was in office wrapping things up and the new chief,  63 
1 Mr. Klain, came in with his staff. Because we were doing like an interim [inaudible] and 
2 they were supposed to be there for that. But he was upstairs with White House 
3 counsel. They were working on last minute, like, tie up loose ends things. So I only 
4 saw Mr. Meadows once that day. And I didn't ask him about binders at all. 
5 Ms. Cheney. So how were the copies made? 
6 Ms. Hutchinson. He was working with a woman named Sue Bai, B-a-i, that 
7 worked in the National Security Council. I don't know how --what their protocol is for 
8 that, but --
9 Ms. Cheney. So when did you --just sort of walk us through. He was working 
10 with her --
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 Ms. Hutchinson. To make the copies. 
Ms. Cheney. Yeah. And then did the copies all show up back in your office? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah, that night. 
Ms. Cheney. In binders? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Uh-huh. 
The Reporter. Yes or no, please. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Oh, sorry. Yes. Correct, in binders. 
Ms. Cheney. And then were the binders marked? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I don't remember. They were in boxes, but bankers boxes. 
20 Ms. Cheney. Okay. And were they divided so you knew sort which ones --
21 Ms. Hutchinson. They came with one dolly. I believe there was four boxes, 
22 maybe five. They were stacked really high. It was like that. 
23 Ms. Cheney. It was like five full bankers boxes? 
24 
25 Ms. Hutchinson. Right, correct. But they were also --they were big binders. 
Ms. Cheney. And do you know if any of those materials in any way connected to  64 
1 Mr. Flynn? 
2 
3 
4 
5 Ms. Hutchinson. I don't know. 
Ms. Cheney. To Mr. Lakeland (ph)? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I'm not sure. 
Ms. Cheney. In terms of what you understood, that you can say, and again, and I 
6 will recognize that we are being cautious here, it was related to the election? 
7 
8 
9 Ms. Hutchinson. The bank binders? I don't believe so. 
Ms. Cheney. Okay. 
Ms. Hutchinson. There were a few other small items that he discussed with 
10 HPSCI, less than 100 pages, that potentially have things to do with the election. But to 
11 my understanding, the binders have --didn't have anything to do with the election. 
12 Now I could be wrong. I'm sure if he can --when we discuss --
13 Ms. Cheney. Okay. Anything else that you recall about those materials or Mr. 
14 Meadows talking about them? 
15 
16 
17 Ms. Hutchinson. The HPSCI materials? 
Ms. Cheney. Uh-huh. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Only the night that Ms. Bai brought or had everything come up 
18 to her office and deliver --having it all be delivered. I remember White House Counsel's 
19 Office, both Mr. Philbin and Mr. Cipollone came down and spoke with Mr. Meadows and 
20 then spoke with me too about the version that I had. And they asked if they could talk 
21 to Mr. Meadows before he left because they wanted to be careful about all of this. And 
22 they felt he had rushed the process a little bit. And they asked if I would lend them the 
23 one that he gave me for Mr. McCarthy so they could bring it upstairs to review. So I 
24 gave that one to Mr. Philbin temporarily. And then Mr. Cipollone was in Mr. Meadows' 
25 office. And then Mr. Philbin brought it back down. And I remember only one edit  65 
1 here, but it is not the end of the world. And he had only skimmed through it, but other 
2 than that conversation with White House Counsel's Office that we can discuss here, I 
3 don't think I have anything else to add. 
4 Ms. Cheney. Did Mr. Meadows say anything to you about the President in 
5 conjunction with these documents? 
6 Ms. Hutchinson. He said the President wanted there --the President wanted 
7 those documents --the President wanted these documents to be reviewed. And he --I 
8 am trying to be careful --I might be being overly cautious now. I think. I think we 
9 might talk about that in a more classified --it is topic specific, I think if that is --
10 
11 Ms. Passantino. Yeah, that is fine. 
Ms. Cheney. Okay. I don't have anything else on that. I don't know if you 
12 have anything else. 
13 BY 
14 Q When Mr. Philbin reviewed the documents and made you said one edit, did 
15 he know that these documents were contemplated for release publicly? 
16 
17 
18 A 
Q 
A I am not sure. 
Did he know whether they were contemplated for release to Mr. McCarthy? 
I don't think so because I remember saying I had that copy for Mr. McCarthy. 
19 And Mr. Cipollone said: Why would Mr. Meadows have you --have you be the one to 
20 give this to McCarthy? Why does Mr. McCarthy need this? 
21 And I said: I don't know. 
22 
23 
24 I said: Just be careful [inaudible] why he called. 
I said: Why don't you call Kevin? 
And I just called Mr. McCarthy and didn't really ask or detail my conversation with 
25 White House counsel. I just told him what was going on, the outcome of the  66 
1 conversation a few minutes ago. 
2 Q Was that on a secure line? Was that a classified conversation with 
3 Mr. McCarthy? 
4 A No, no. But I also didn't give him any details of what it was. I mean, I told 
5 him that I had --I told him I had a big binder, I think is what I said to him almost verbatim: 
6 Hey, Mark gave me a big binder. They have been working on it for a while with the 
7 lawyers. The Situation Room has been involved. I am not really sure what is in here. 
8 He wants you to have a copy of it. I personally don't think it is something you need to 
9 have, but I want to check with you before I give it to you in case he calls you and asks if 
10 you read it, and then I get blamed for something that I didn't do. 
11 
12 He said: A big binder? 
And then I don't think he --I didn't --I don't even think he asked me. He said: 
13 No, I don't want anything to do with that. Just hold on to it. Something along those 
14 lines. 
15 Q Did the copies of these documents include classification markings? 
16 A The original one --the original ones did. I didn't go through the copies that 
17 were made the night of the 18th or 19th. I believe copies started being made on the 
18 night of the 18th because they had to stop because the machines broke, because they 
19 just couldn't keep up with the --their bandwidth was low because it was very long. 
20 Q You said there is two different versions, four copies of each roughly. What 
21 was different between the versions? 
22 A I think that the --how I understood it was there was the original copy that 
23 we received from HPSCI of this specific item that had no redactions. It was the original 
24 documents of the topic, said topic. Then there was the edited version by HPSCI without 
25 White House counsel's approval of what they believed to be finite or for public release or  67 
1 knowledge or however they were planning to utilize this information. And then the 
2 ones that --that one was taken, maybe given to somebody in the White House Counsel's 
3 Office. I actually believe --sorry to clarify; my memory is shot. I believe that Sue Bai 
4 was technically employed by the White House Counsel's Office but worked on national 
5 security matters, but I would have to double check on that. 
6 
7 Q 
A Okay. 
Or however you all would confirm somebody's title. I just don't want to 
8 mis-attribute her affiliation. 
9 But then there is the HPSCI edited copy that was given to somebody in White 
10 House Counsel's Office for more review, and they had further redactions or further edits 
11 made for whatever actions were intended to be taken on these documents. So version 
12 number 2 was less edited than version number 3, which the White House counsel 
13 approved version. 
14 Q And version number 1 was not edited at all, the original document? 
15 A Correct. And that was the one I signed for late December. And I believe 
16 we established that it was delivered 30th I think is the date. 
17 Q Okay. And, just to clarify for my own understanding, these documents, 
18 they were HPSCl-owned information, or were they other agency-owned information that 
19 HPSCI had? 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 Mr. Passantino. If you know. 
Mr- If you know. 
Ms. Hutchinson. I am not sure. 
Mr.- Okay. 
Ms. Hutchinson. HPSCI knew of this information. Its origination, I am not sure. 
Ms. Cheney. And --I am sorry.  68 
Mr.- No, go ahead. 1 
2 Ms. Cheney. Just to be clear, so when the copy process was going on, the HPSCI 
3 original was copied as well? 
4 Ms. Hutchinson. The HPSCI original was not copied. 
5 Ms. Cheney. So what happened to the HPSCI original? 
6 
7 
8 
9 Ms. Hutchinson. I don't know. 
Ms. Cheney. Did it go home with Mr. Meadows? 
Ms. Hutchinson. That is the most --
Mr. Passantino. Go ahead and answer, but don't --if you don't know, say you 
10 don't know. I mean, say whatever you want to say, but make sure you are clear 
11 whether you are speaking from knowledge or you are making an estimate --you are 
12 estimating or --you are making an estimate. 
13 Ms. Hutchinson. I am almost positive it went home with Mr. Meadows. I don't 
14 think that would have been something that he would have destroyed. It was not 
15 returned anywhere, and it never left our office to go internally anywhere. It stayed in 
16 our safe in the office safe most of the time. Unless he was looking at it or unless HPSCI 
17 had it, during those couple of days that they were reviewing it, if that makes sense. 
18 Ms. Cheney. Yeah. So basically it was in your office from when the HPSCI 
19 documents arrived --
20 
21 
22 
23 or --
24 
25 Ms. Hutchinson. Correct. 
Ms. Cheney. --until the end. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Near the end. I don't know if it left a couple of days before 
Ms. Cheney. Did you see it leave? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I didn't, but it wasn't in the safe on the last day, because I  69 
1 double checked to make sure that we didn't have anything in there. Because we will 
2 keep our --throughout the day we would get paper copies of things from the Situation 
3 Room. And if they were not responsive, then we didn't have to sign for them and bring 
4 them back down. We normally just leave those in the safe and bring those down to the 
5 Situation Room at the end of week, just to make paper flow easier on them. So I 
6 wanted to double check that we did not leave anything in there for the new 
7 administration to deal with. And the binder, the documents weren't in there. 
8 
9 
10 
11 Ms. Cheney. Do you remember when you last saw them in there? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I don't. 
Ms. Cheney. Okay. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Somewhere between January 10th and 15th perhaps. But I 
12 don't know the exact day. I remember seeing it after the 6th. 
13 Ms. Cheney. And do you remember anything discussion about it after the 6th 
14 or --
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 Ms. Hutchinson. Not until the 18th, 19th, and 20th. 
Ms. Cheney. But it wasn't it --it wasn't one of the ones that was copied? 
Ms. Hutchinson. No. Mr. Meadows would not have had that one copied. 
The Reporter. Again, please. 
Ms. Hutchinson. I'm sorry. Mr. Meadows would not have had that one copied. 
Ms. Cheney. And why do you say that? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I'm sorry? 
Ms. Cheney. And why wouldn't he have that one copied? 
Ms. Hutchinson. He didn't want that one --he wanted to keep that one close 
24 hold. He didn't want that one to be widely known about. I just know Mr. Meadows. 
25 He wouldn't have had that one copied unless he did it on his own, but --I don't think he  70 
1 knows how to use a copy machine. 
Ms. Cheney. Okay. That is all I have on those. 
BY 2 
3 
4 Q Going back, when you talked about Mr. Meadows burning some documents 
5 in his fireplace, you mentioned that he did so sometimes you recalled after Mr. Perry 
6 would visit the White House. Just to clarify, is that Representative Scott Perry? 
7 
8 A 
Q Yes, sir. 
Okay. And in your text messages with Ms. Thurston, you sent a picture of a 
9 fireplace, it is exhibit 25, page 8. Is that the fireplace in Mr. Meadows' office? 
10 
11 A 
Q Yes, sir. 
On the 28th, you mentioned that the fireplace is back in action, and then the 
12 29th, you mention he's checking --chucking logs on to the fireplace. Around that time 
13 period, do you remember Mr. Meadows burning documents? 
14 
15 
16 A 
Q 
A Which page in this? I am sorry. 
This is pages 8 and 9 of exhibit 25. 
Oh back in action. So that --back in action, I just want to be clear for my 
17 conscience. We had real garland for the fireplace over Christmas, and I didn't want him 
18 to light it with the dying real garland. I didn't want there to be a fire in the West Wing. 
19 So that is why I made that comment there. There were a handful of times that the West 
20 Wing was empty during this period, and there were maybe three or four times that I am 
21 aware of that I saw him throw a few things into the fireplace, but again, the --I never 
22 asked. They were full sheets of paper. It's not like it was a note card or just like a --I 
23 remember them being 8 by 11, 8.5-by-11 sheets of paper. But I don't know what they 
24 were. There was --
25 Q Okay. Is there something you recall about documents he burned  71 
1 specifically? 
2 A Document specific, no. I --there was one time that when Mr. Perry was 
3 there, I think he threw a few things in, and I was in the room with them, not for very long 
4 though. And it was mostly small talk. This was at the end of the meeting. I was 
5 trying to get him, Mr. Perry, out because I think Mark --Mr. Meadows was supposed to 
6 meet with somebody else from DOJ who had been waiting for a while. So he had done 
7 it with Mr. Perry there. And I remember Mr. Perry saying something like, oh, 
8 [inaudible]] and Mr. Meadows was kind of like chuckling or something. 
9 
10 Ms. Cheney. And what were they talking about? 
Ms. Hutchinson. The election fraud issues, January 6th protocol, the Vice 
11 President. That is what the meeting was about. I --I wasn't --right now, if I really 
12 break through these texts, I probably could pinpoint the exact day, but off the top of my 
13 head, I don't --I don't know. 
14 
15 
16 
17 Ms. Cheney. And so you don't know what he was burning? 
Ms. Hutchinson. No. 
Ms. Cheney. Were they talking about the Department of Justice? 
Ms. Hutchinson. It could have come up in the meeting. Mr. Meadows 
18 frequently met with the Department of Justice in the late afternoons or early evenings. 
19 But I don't know if that was what they had discussed with Mr. Perry. I took it as the 
20 meetings with Mr. Perry were more of them discussing strategy for January 6th, what 
21 they believed the Vice President's role could be. But again, I never asked, like, some of 
22 the more intricate details of their conversations or how they were going to entertain 
23 things. I think things had shifted throughout this period and more people became 
24 involved. And --
25 Ms. Cheney. And do you remember --one of the messages you turned over --I  72 
1 think it is a Signal. It is a screen shot. I don't know the number. 
- Exhibit 29. 
Ms. Hutchinson. This is the same tab? 
Mr. Passantino. Twenty-nine. 
Twenty-nine, yes. 2 
3 
4 
5 
6 Ms. Cheney. And Mr. Perry is sending you a Signal to help clearing some people. 
7 And I think Mr. Waldron is on that clearance list. 
8 Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah, James P. Waldron, John Robert McGuire, the second 
9 Richard Higgins. So this was December 29th. They came in on the 29th. They came 
10 in this day; I remember. 
11 
12 Ms. Cheney. Did you sit in that meeting? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I had gone in and out a couple times. But I was not in the 
13 meeting from start to finish. 
14 
15 Ms. Cheney. Do you recall what they discussed? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I hate to sound overly broad again. January 6th, the Vice 
16 President's role, Phil Waldron, always bring a lot of materials and updated information 
17 about we can take this approach; this website has more ballots that have been found, 
18 shows more fraud. So this meeting specifically I don't remember what they brought; I 
19 don't remember what their ideas were on this specific day. But I remember this 
20 meeting was fairly long, I believe almost 2, 2.5 hours. I remember the times I had 
21 ducked in. I ducked in at one point because Mark asked --Mr. Meadows asked me to 
22 make a photocopy of a PowerPoint for him, and I brought it back in. And then 
23 Mr. McGuire and Mr. Higgins I remember were trying to make small talk with me, and I 
24 was trying to exit through, a few other times. I mean, it wasn't anything overly 
25 significant out of the grounds of what we have already discussed in terms of how they  73 
1 believed the Vice President's role could be executed on that day and how they believed 
2 the outcome of the election was, but --
3 BY 
4 Q Do you remember Mr. Meadows burning anything after this meeting on the 
5 29th in his fireplace? 
6 A I don't remember specifically after this meeting. If I --I don't remember 
7 anything specifically after this meeting. I don't know what time he left that day. If I 
8 cross reference what Ms. Thurston texts me maybe, I would remember definitively yes or 
9 no, but off the top of my head, I don't. 
10 Q And Mr. Perry, meaning Scott Perry, wasn't at this meeting with Mr. 
11 Waldron, McGuire, and Higgins? 
12 
13 A 
Q That is correct. 
I believe Mr. Higgins, his name has been identified publicly as somebody 
14 associated with an effort to get raw NSA signals data related to the election. Do you 
15 remember anything about that, asking intelligence agencies to obtain raw intelligence 
16 data about the election? 
17 A I remember him talking about intelligence agencies, but I don't know if the 
18 raw data portion of it was --
19 
20 Q 
A Okay. 
He had also --he was the person --I am very confident he was the first 
21 person who had mentioned the tallying of satellites to me too, him and Mr. Waldron 
22 together. So I don't know if that has anything to with the intelligence agencies or if that 
23 is a separate theory that they had been entertaining. 
24 
25 Q 
A Okay. I believe you talked about that last time we met. 
Correct.  1 
2 
3 
4 Q Okay. 
Ms. Cheney. Anything else? 
No. 
Ms. Cheney. I think that is everything that I have on these issues. Are there 
5 things you want to touch on? 
I do. A few more for you. 
BY~ 74 
6 
7 
8 Q So, on January 2nd, the President, Mr. Meadows, Cleta Mitchell, Kurt Hilbert, 
9 and potentially others had a call with Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, along with a 
10 few people on his side, in which the President asked a number of things, one of which 
11 was to, in his words, find 11,780 votes. Are you aware of the call that I am talking 
12 about? 
13 
14 A Yes, sir. 
Q Do you know why Mr. Meadows participated in that call or was asked to 
15 participate in that call? 
16 A I believe the call was his idea, if not an idea that him and the President came 
17 up with together. Because I remember him coming back --I remember him coming out 
18 of his office and telling me that they were going to set it up and if I could work with Molly 
19 on that, Molly Michael, the President's executive assistant. And I had no idea --Ms. 
20 Thurston normally did all that stuff for Mr. Meadows, and I had no idea how to go about 
21 making a call like that. I didn't really do the administrative things like that for Mr. 
22 Meadows often. So I deferred to Molly on that. She said that Mr. Meadows had also 
23 mentioned something to her about assembling this call the day before. So --and the 
24 President reacted with her because she would get on it. And then she'd let me know 
25 when she contacted the Georgia State officials.  1 
2 Q What was your understanding of the purpose of that call? 
A Mr. Trump and Mr. Meadows wanted to be sure that the Georgia officials 75 
3 were utilizing every resource at their disposal to ensure that all the ballots that were cast 
4 in Mr. Trump's favor for Georgia were counted. 
5 Q Did they say anything else about or anything about their plans for the call, 
6 any specific requests they were going to make to Mr. Raffensperger? 
7 
8 
9 A 
Q 
A Not that I was aware of. Mr. Meadows didn't say anything to me. 
Did you listen to the call in real time? 
I was dialed in probably for the first 10 minutes because Mr. Meadows took 
10 the call in his office with the door shut --well, his door was shut for the first portion. 
11 And then I hung up after about 10 minutes because I didn't think I needed to listen to any 
12 more. And probably about 20 minutes into the call, maybe 15, he had popped open the 
13 door, and I could hear the other half of it, kind of. I mean, I wasn't really listening. But 
14 the door was open so --and he had it on speaker phone. I just wasn't really paying 
15 attention that closely. 
16 
17 Q Did you talk to him about the call after it ended? 
A Yeah. There were a few people in our office after it ended. I --somebody 
18 from White House Counsel's Office. It might have been both Mr. Cipollone and 
19 Mr. Philbin. 
20 
21 
22 
23 Mr. Passantino. Same advice, just careful about attorney-client. 
Ms. Hutchinson. I know. 
Q I will stop you there for a second. Did they participate in the call or listen 
24 to the call? 
25 A I can't remember.  76 
1 Q That's fine. Do you know why Mr. Cipollone and Mr. Philbin came in 
2 afterwards to talk about the call? Were they called in or asked to join? 
3 A I know that they were asked to join. I can't remember if they were dialed 
4 in upstairs, if they were in Mr. Meadows' office for the call, if they had come in halfway 
5 through. I know they had been in there at the end of the call, whether that was because 
6 Mr. Meadows had called, texted one of them to come down, and they had come down, 
7 and that is when they --I just --I am sorry. I just can't remember if they were in there 
8 for the entire duration. 
9 
10 
11 Q Okay. Who else was in the room after the call? 
A 
Q I can't remember anybody else off the top of my head. 
Do you remember what Mr. Meadows said about the call that had just 
12 concluded? 
13 A I remember him hypothetically asking me and the lawyers if we thought it 
14 was going to leak. And all of us just kind of laughed. And then Mr. Meadows had said: 
15 Maybe I should --the President took the call from the residence upstairs, and he said: 
16 Maybe I should go up there and talk to him. 
17 And I think he just gave Mr. Trump a call and didn't end up going upstairs to the 
18 residence. 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 Q Did Mr. Meadows express any concerns about what had been on the call? 
A No. 
Q Or anything that the President requested? 
A Not in my presence. 
Q Did you ever hear the President talking about this call? 
A Not in my presence. 
Q Did you ever hear reports of what the President said after the call, other  77 
1 than what you may have read or heard publicly? 
2 A Yeah, I heard on my end in the first couple minutes, and it --kind of tuned in 
3 a little bit when the Mr. Meadows had him on speaker and after he'd opened up the 
4 door --would you like to repeat your question? 
5 Q 
6 afterwards? 
7 
8 A 
Q Sure. Are you aware of anything the President said about the call 
Oh. No, no. 
Okay. And that was a topic that was eventually leaked --during the call, 
9 what did he --and the topic of conversation I'd assume. But do you remember anybody 
10 in the White House expressing concerns, thoughts about the President's request to find 
11 11,000-plus votes in Georgia? 
12 
13 
14 A 
Q 
A Yes, sir. 
Tell me about that. 
I think there was general concern that --how he would phrase it; it would 
15 sound like a pressure campaign or sound like he was encouraging activities that weren't 
16 necessarily legal because there hadn't been a briefing done for this call, and, you know, 
17 he had his own way of thinking about this because of conversations he had had with 
18 outside interests. But I know that even Mr. Meadows said there was concern that he 
19 would say things that could potentially be taken out of context or within contexts that 
20 were potentially damaging. But I don't recall anybody taking definitive steps to try to 
21 stop the call from happening either. 
22 
23 Q 
A Were those concerns expressed before the call took place or after? 
The way I remember this call coming together, it was just fairly quick and 
24 sort of all hands on deck; let's just make sure it happens. So there wasn't really 
25 much --to my recollection, there wasn't much conversation about protocol for the call, if  78 
1 he should be with anybody who should back brief him, which we normally had before 
2 calls of significant magnitude. 
3 Q Okay. And these concerns that you expressed or that people had, after the 
4 call I'm assuming, who expressed those? 
5 
6 
7 
8 Mr. Passantino. Do you want to talk? 
- Takeyourtime. 
Ms. Hutchinson. I am just trying to be careful. I --
Mr. Passantino. Yeah. Well, that doesn't sound like legal advice if it was 
9 lawyers expressing concerns, but you are saying after the --
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 Ms. Hutchinson. May we please have a moment? 
Yes. Of course. We will go off the record. 
[Discussion off the record.] 
BYMR.-
Q We are back. Within the bounds that your attorney has advised you, 
15 whatever that is, can you please explain who expressed the concerns about the call to 
16 Secretary Raffensperger? 
17 A Yes, it was the White House Counsel's Office and generally speaking had 
18 concerns why this call is taking place in the first place. You know, felt the process was a 
19 bit shambly and not within the parameters that they would like it to be executed. And 
20 then, after the call took place, they had concerns about the fallout from the call, things 
21 that were said, the President's image with the call, especially if the call were to leak, and 
22 asked Mr. Meadows if there was anything he would recommend doing in terms of having 
23 a conversation with the President or reaching back out to Georgia State officials. And I 
24 think Mr. Meadows had just kind of let it go at that point. 
25 Q I believe Cleta Mitchell was on the call as well. Was she at the White House  1 for that, to your knowledge? 
2 
3 
4 
5 A She wasn't in Mr. Meadows' office for the call. 
Ms. Cheney. Was she in the residence? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I don't think so, but --
Ms. Cheney. And did Mr. Meadows --to this discussion about what the 79 
6 President might do afterwards, do you remember the details of what was discussed that 
7 he might do? 
8 Ms. Hutchinson. I recall Mr. Meadows wondering if he was going put out a 
9 tweet about the call, which sometimes the President would do after he had a call over his 
10 entire Presidency, or if he was going to make individual calls to State legislatures, call 
11 back other people saying that he had just --he was just kind of wondering I think 
12 generally if the President was going to drop it and let it go and see where things went in 
13 Georgia or if he was going to take further action by bringing more people into the loop or 
14 pressing the issue further on more curated calls tailored towards specific individuals. 
15 
16 Ms. Cheney. Were there other calls like this one? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Not to my knowledge. Mr. Meadows had personally 
17 communicated with Georgia State officials throughout the end of December and early 
18 January, but I don't --to my knowledge, he didn't have any calls with them about finding 
19 11,000 ballots. He had calls and meetings wondering and inquiring about the ballots. 
20 Ms. Cheney. And were there any other States? 
21 Ms. Hutchinson. November through early to mid-December Mr. Meadows had 
22 focused a lot on Arizona. I wasn't involved in any of the calls or his outreach with any 
23 kind of State officials, though. I couldn't name one person he spoke to by memory. 
24 And Pennsylvania too. A little bit of Michigan outreach. I don't remember him 
25 communicating with people in Wisconsin.  1 
2 Q 80 
I am going to draw your attention to exhibit 25, back to the text with Ms. 
3 Thurston on page 17. You produced a text, the second one down from the top, it says: 
4 He just came back down in a huff and said, "I have got a real problem," and shut his door. 
5 He called Debbie and also said he's significantly delayed. 
6 Do you remember what that text was about, that was on December 31st? 
7 A He was in the Oval Office with Mr. --Mr. Trump had just arrived back at the 
8 White House from his stay at Mar-a-Lago for Christmas and was in the Oval Office. Mr. 
9 Meadows went and met him there. And we had brought in officials from the 
10 Department of Justice. They were all meeting in the Oval Office that afternoon. By the 
11 time Mr. Meadows had come back, I believe DOJ officials had already left or had just left. 
12 
13 Q 
A Do you remember who the officials were? 
I am trying to remember it. I remember Mr. Rosen and Mr. Donoghue 
14 being there that night. I remember Mr. Rosen being there that night. I am cautious 
15 about Mr. Donoghue. 
16 Q Do you remember what the problem was that Mr. Meadows --1 assume 
17 "he," by the way, in this text message is Mr. Meadows? 
18 
19 
20 
21 A The "he" is referencing Mr. Meadows. 
Q Okay. 
A I don't what the problem was. 
Q But you think it was related to the meeting with the Department officials in 
22 the Oval Office? 
23 
24 A Yes, sir. 
Q Do you know if it had anything do with leadership or potential leadership 
25 changes the Department?  81 
1 A I know that that topic came up during that meeting, but I am not sure if that 
2 is what he was referencing as his real problem in that moment. 
3 
4 Q 
A And you don't remember the real problem that he's referring to? 
No. 
5 Ms. Cheney. Did---it says mostly everyone is in his office now, but perhaps he is 
6 still up with POTUS. Did the people from the Oval Office come down to Mark's office? 
7 
8 
9 Ms. Hutchinson. Yes. 
Ms. Cheney. So that would have been Mr. Rosen, Mr. --
Ms. Hutchinson. I am cautious about who was there that night because there 
10 was another big DOJ meeting a few nights later, and I don't want to mix the participants 
11 up with both of them. So I am sorry if I am not too helpful there. 
12 Ms. Cheney. No, that is okay. 
13 Ms. Hutchinson. But --and the only reason I am confident about Mr. Rosen is 
14 because he had access to campus without having to be cleared on to campus. And I 
15 remember that being beneficial that night because the meeting came together fairly 
16 quickly. But I can't remember if he brought people in his vehicle with him or who he 
17 would have brought with him that night. 
18 But they did --they came back to Mr. Meadows' office afterwards. And then he 
19 left a couple of hours later --Mr. Meadows left a couple hours later. 
20 Ms. Cheney. So they spent a couple of hours in Mr. Meadows' office? 
21 Ms. Hutchinson. Correct. 
22 Ms. Cheney. And did Mr. Cipollone join them at any time, or did he stay down 
23 with POTUS? 
24 Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Cipollone did come back and join him. I can't remember 
25 for how long. We were trying to rush Mark --Mr. Meadows out of our office because  1 him and his wife had a trip planned to Salamander that night, and she had expected to 
2 leave I believe around 2 p.m., so we were trying to move things along. 
3 Ms. Cheney. Okay. 
4 BYMR.-
5 Q Do you remember any comments that the President made about the 
6 leadership at the Department of Justice around this time, so late December, early 
7 January? 
8 
9 
10 A 
Q 
A Not in my presence. 
Do you remember hearing about any comments he made? 
I remember Mr. Meadows talking with Mr. Perry about Department --the 82 
11 Department of Justice leadership and potential changes that could be made because Mr. 
12 Perry was advocating for there to be changes made. And Mr. Meadows had reached 
13 out to Mr. Perry as a follow up and said that he had raised it with Mr. Trump in case Mr. 
14 Trump called Mr. Perry to talk about it. And I remember Mr. Meadows privately not 
15 advocating for there to be leadership changes, but in a group setting or with the 
16 President, he had had very public conversations within --with staff in the West Wing 
17 about how he wasn't going --he wanted to not --he wanted to stay fairly neutral with the 
18 President on it. 
19 
20 
21 
22 Q 
A 
Q 
A Mr. Meadows wanted to stay neutral? 
Correct, sorry. 
Okay. 
Yes, Mr. Meadows had privately said to me: I don't think it's a good idea, 
23 especially this close to inauguration day, to January 6th. 
24 But in broader conversations in the lobby of our office or even in the hallways, he 
25 had said: I am just staying neutral on that with the President. He's going to do what  83 
1 he's going do, and I'll continue to support him. 
2 Now, I think as that became more probable and the conversations became more 
3 real, he had taken a more definitive stance on it and began to push back a little bit, but --
4 Q Was it your understanding that Representative Perry was pushing for a 
5 specific person to take over the Department? 
6 A He wanted Mr. Clark --Mr. Jeff Clark to take over the Department of Justice. 
7 Do you have any follow up on that? 
8 Okay. 
9 BY 
10 Q Are you familiar with the Oval log as a means of keeping records of what was 
11 happening in the Oval Office? 
12 
13 A 
Q Yes, sir. 
Who, to the best of your understanding, was responsible for keeping track 
14 and completing the Oval log every day. 
15 A To the best of my understanding, primarily it would have been Ms. Mollie 
16 Michael's responsibility. But Mr. Austin Ferrer, F-e-r-r-e-r, also I believe split 
17 responsibilities with her. I think she felt a little inundated, and Mr. Ferrer had worked at 
18 the office of the staff secretary beforehand so he was familiar with the process and what 
19 was expected of the Oval Office diary or log. 
20 Q Did you ever learn that White House staff had stopped completing the Oval 
21 log? 
22 
23 A 
Q Not to my tenure. 
Did you ever hear any instructions to Mr. Ferrer or Ms. Michael to include or 
24 not including certain information on the Oval log? 
25 A I had heard Mr. Meadows talk about keeping some information close hold.  84 
1 But I am not familiar with the process of keeping an Oval Office diary log so I don't know 
2 what that would have meant. I say that because I am not sure if there is a public version 
3 and maybe a classified version or if he had encouraged him not to include certain 
4 meetings on it. But I remember him having a meeting with the Outer Oval saying: 
5 Let's keep some meetings close hold. We will talk about what that means, but for now, 
6 we will keep things real tight and private so things don't start to leak out. 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
12 close hold? 
13 A When do you remember that happening approximately? 
Maybe early December. 
What about --go ahead. 
Perhaps end of November. 
Was there any information in particular that Mr. Meadows wanted to keep 
Not to my recollection, other than he was really concerned about leaks 
14 during this period. And how I took that was let's just limit how much exposure the 
15 President could have with some of the meetings and calls that are taking place right now; 
16 we don't want it to start leaking out to the press, was the way that originally it had 
17 been --sounded to me. 
18 Q Were there certain meetings or calls that would fit the category of close hold 
19 as you understood it? 
20 A I'm not sure. I am not sure how he would have classified that. This was 
21 around the time too, though, that he sat down with the scheduling team in our office, and 
22 we had discussed keeping the schedule close hold, and that was when they put out just 
23 the President having meetings, blanket statements for the daily public scheduled. 
24 Q What about January 6th, are you aware of any instructions that Mr. 
25 Meadows gave to keep information on January 6th close hold?  85 
Not specifically to the 6th, no. 1 
2 A 
Q Are you aware of any instructions from anybody other than Mr. Meadows to 
3 keep information related to January 6th close hold or off the Oval log? 
4 A The log? 
5 Q I am going to ask you about the White House photographer, but Ms. Cheney 
6 do you have any followup on that? 
7 Ms. Cheney. Was there any time in particular where Mr. Meadows said, "Keep 
8 this off the log"? 
9 
10 
11 Ms. Hutchinson. Do you mean a particular event that sparked it? 
Ms. Cheney. Yeah. 
Ms. Hutchinson. No. I remember both the conversation with the Outer Oval 
12 and the conversation with the scheduler, Mr. Haidet, happening somewhat in tandem. 
13 And that would line up with when we put out this "President was taking many calls, doing 
14 many meetings" statements every day. And I remember Mr. Trump and Mr. Meadows 
15 having that conversation of let's not put things out publicly anymore. So I didn't press it 
16 further. I didn't work in the Outer Oval. I didn't work with the President's scheduling. 
17 So I --it is something that I didn't care what the reason was. It was just beyond my 
18 purview at the time. I just didn't press it further. 
19 Ms. Cheney. And so was this close hold connected to what would be released 
20 publicly? 
21 Ms. Hutchinson. The term "close hold" I think was just the way that he had 
22 justified why they were going about it this way. I didn't take it as anything nefarious. 
23 Again, I wasn't familiar with the Oval Office diary taking so --and what that process 
24 looked like at that time. So I --don't think until like late December or early January 
25 understood that it was --had been applied to that.  86 
Ms. Cheney. Applied in which way? 1 
2 Ms. Hutchinson. Where there were certain things that had potentially been left 
3 off. 
4 
5 
6 Ms. Cheney. So even the internal distribution? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Correct. 
Ms. Cheney. And how did you can come to that? 
7 Ms. Hutchinson. --our internal distribution of things had already narrowed --and 
8 there already weren't many people who received his schedule or call logs, but I think 
9 maybe there were seven or eight people that had received --that was probably cut down 
10 from 15 to 16. So it was Mr. Meadows, myself, Ms. Thurston, Outer Oval, Mr. Ornate 
11 and his deputy, Beau Harrison, Mr. Beau Harrison, and Mr. Scavino. 
12 Ms. Cheney. And Mr. Scavino got both Mr. Meadows' information and the 
13 President's information? 
14 Ms. Hutchinson. The President's information. Ms. Thurston and I were the 
15 only ones that had Mr. Meadows' information. 
16 Ms. Cheney. And when you came to understand the tightening of the internal 
17 distribution, you said the end of December, early January, was there something 
18 that --how did you come to understand that? 
19 Ms. Hutchinson. I remember having conversations with Mr. Haidet where he 
20 had just said something along the lines of: This isn't the protocol that I have used for 
21 the last couple of years, but I guess it's fine to keep on learning. 
22 And we had a brief conversation about how things had changed a little bit, and 
23 Mr. Haidet was on the distribution list. We had a brief conversation just about how 
24 things had shifted a little bit, but we're both private people, and sometimes there is more 
25 expressed when there is nothing said at all, so.  87 
1 
2 [5:23 p.m.] 
3 BY 
4 Q Are you aware of any instructions from the President on January 6th not to 
5 take photos inside the White House? 
A I was not aware of that. 6 
7 Q And specifically I should refer to the White House photographers, not you or 
8 somebody else using their cell phones, but --
9 A I never heard that directive. I don't even remember which photographers 
10 were on duty that day. 
11 
12 
13 
14 Q Okay. 
A I'm trying to think if it was Ms. Craighead or Ms. Dufour. 
Q Tia Dufour? 
A Yeah, Tia Dufour. I was fairly close to both of them. I don't recall them 
15 saying any of that to me. 
16 Q Okay. Now, in the period we have been talking about, which is roughly 
17 been November 2020 through January 2021, I am going to expand a little bit on that, but 
18 are you aware of any conversations in the White House, with the President or otherwise, 
19 about groups like the Oath Keepers? 
20 
21 A Yes, sir. 
Q When do you remember first hearing about them? And what were those 
22 conversations? 
23 
24 
25 A The Oath Keepers? 
Q Yes. 
A I don't remember much of the conversations. I remember the Oath  88 
1 Keepers, QAnon, and the Proud Boys coming up a few times. I don't recall there being a 
2 specific conversation that I was a part of about one of the groups in particular, more of 
3 just in general what they believed to be the outcome of the election and how they had 
4 their theories, which I afterwards had learned for some of the times like Dominion voting 
5 machines. 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 Q I will go through them one by one. 
Do you remember QAnon coming up before January 6th in the White House? 
A 
Q In conversation, yes. 
Do you remember the Proud Boys --
Ms. Cheney. With whom? 
Mr. - Oh, I am sorry. 
Ms. Hutchinson. I remember Mr. Meadows and Mr. Perry talking about all of 
13 the --all of the groups and with several other Members of Congress, mostly the ones 
14 included in the December 21st meeting. I remember Mr. Brooks mentioning some of the 
15 groups. Mr. Biggs, Ms. Marjorie Taylor Greene, although it was Congresswoman-elect at 
16 the time. Mr. Navarro had talked about them a couple of times, had brought in packets 
17 for Mr. Meadows' review, and I remember skimming through them and saying something 
18 about if QAnon supports this theory, not reading too much into it myself, but just trying 
19 to see what it was about. Internally that is kind of the extent that I currently remember. 
20 
21 Q BY 
So you remember all of those coming up, QAnon, Proud Boys, and Oath 
22 Keepers, before January 6th in discussions with the White House? 
23 
24 A 
Q Correct. 
Do you recall any conversations about any of these groups being present at 
25 the President's rallies?  89 
1 A I remember when we were traveling back from Georgia --or we were on the 
2 ground in Georgia actually, Ms. Greene, Mr. Meadows, and I --Mr. Meadows and I were 
3 having conversation on the ground in Georgia. Ms. Greene came up and began talking 
4 to us about QAnon and QAnon going to the rally, and she had a lot of constituents that 
5 are QAnon, and they'll all be there. And she was showing him pictures of them traveling 
6 up to Washington, D.C., for the rally on the 6th. 
7 And I remember they had begun talking a little bit more about QAnon. I don't 
8 know in detail what it was, though, and I just had to wait at that point because I didn't 
9 feel like I was supposed be in that conversation. 
10 Q Did anyone in the conversation express concerns about QAnon or Proud 
11 Boys or Oath Keepers? 
12 
13 A 
Q Not to my recollection. 
Did the President ever express any views that you are aware of, before 
14 January 6th, of QAnon, the Proud Boys, or the Oath Keepers? 
15 
16 
17 A Not to my knowledge. 
Ms. Cheney. Did you ever hear him talk about any of those groups? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I heard him talk on the plane that night because Ms. Taylor 
18 Greene gave him a very similar spiel: These are my constituents. Look, one of them 
19 had a Q shirt on. They are on the plane. 
20 And she showed him a picture of them, saying: Those are all my people. 
21 That is the only time I remember him ever, in my presence, having a conversation 
22 about some of the groups that you just mentioned. 
23 BY 
24 Q Any discussions that you are aware of about the Oath Keepers or Proud Boys 
25 potentially being violent at all, unrelated to any rallies or anything, but just violence  1 related to those groups? 
2 
3 
4 A In pertinence to the 6th? 
Q Just at all, yeah, just generally about that. 
A Is there a group called the boogaloo boys, or is that part of --I remember I 
5 was talking, I believe, with Max Miller one day, and he made a comment about the 90 
6 boogaloo boys, and Mr. Meadows was present for this. We were in like the main part of 
7 our office here, and Max had said something like: It is only going to be dangerous if the 
8 boogaloo boys come. 
9 And Mr. Meadows says: I haven't heard of them. Are they the dangerous 
10 ones, or is it a different group that are the dangerous ones? 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 And then Max was, like: I think they are all dangerous. 
And Mark was like: Antifa is dangerous too. 
And that was the extent of my exposure to danger. 
Ms. Cheney. And about when would that have been? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Early January, maybe the 3rd or 4th. 
- Before the 6th? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Correct. 
- Do you have followup on that? 
Ms. Cheney. No. But could we take a break? 
- Yes. Let's go off the record. 
[Recess.] 
Let's go on the record. 
It is 5:49, and we are resuming the translated interview of Ms. Cassidy Hutchinson. 
BY 
Q I want to talk to you about John Ratcliffe. In an earlier deposition, you  1 mentioned you had stayed in touch with him or spoken to him at least a couple of times 
2 in the post-election period. Is that right? 
Post-election November through January? 
Correct. 
Yes, correct. 
Okay. Were those conversations about the election? 91 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A Loosely, yes. More of Mr. Ratcliffe reaching out to me to inquire about my 
8 perspective of what was going on inside the West Wing, where Mark's head was at, if he 
9 could be helpful, or if there was a possibility that his outreach could be helpful, or if it was 
10 just kind of let me just continue to stay out of it kind of thing, so just for regular updates. 
11 Q So Mr. Ratcliffe, then Director Ratcliffe, was reaching out to see if he, Mr. 
12 Ratcliffe, could be helpful to the White House? 
13 
14 
15 A 
Q 
A Oh, sorry. I should be more clear. 
No. That is okay. 
Correct, yes. Mr. Ratcliffe and I had a really close professional relationship, 
16 so he would always --whether he wanted to meet with Mr. Meadows briefly or if he had 
17 a quick update for him, he would always reach out to me or we kept in regular contact. 
18 So, during this post-election period, in my opinion --this is something you would 
19 have to ask him explicitly about the way he was handling all of this, but in my 
20 conversations with him, in group conversations, he was taking a little more of a step back 
21 with this, but he would still be in touch with us to make sure that: If you all need 
22 anything, please reach out to me. Hey, Cass, what should I know? Are there any 
23 significant updates? Do I need to intervene on anything? Just let me know if you need 
24 me to help out at all. 
25 Q How did he offer to help out or intervene?  92 
1 A In my conversations with him, he offered to help alleviate pressure off of me 
2 with Mr. Meadows if I felt that him --that Mr. Ratcliffe reaching out to Mr. Meadows and 
3 have a conversation about what was happening inside the West Wing and who was 
4 responsible for certain items and who had exposures to certain things, if he would be at 
5 all helpful to --I am trying to be careful --if his voice would be helpful to have in Mr. 
6 Meadows' ear to either tame him down a little bit from some of the meetings that he was 
7 having more frequently or the way that he was approaching some of the election-related 
8 issues. 
9 Q What was your understanding of Director Ratcliffe's role in looking to 
10 election-related issues? 
11 A My understanding was Director Ratcliffe didn't want much to do with the 
12 post-election period --
13 
14 
15 
16 Q 
A 
Q 
A Did he tell --
--through my conversations with him. 
Did he tell you why? 
He felt --Director Ratcliffe felt that it wasn't something that the White 
17 House should be pursuing. He felt it was dangerous for the President's legacy. He had 
18 expressed to me that he was concerned that it could spiral out of control and potentially 
19 be dangerous, either for our democracy or the way that things were going for the 6th. 
20 And he was also just concerned about the well-being of staff at the White House at the 
21 time because we were thinning out a little bit too, and he knew that with less bodies 
22 around, there's increased pressure on certain people. So he was just trying to do all his 
23 checks and check on people. 
24 Q When you say it --or excuse me --Director Ratcliffe thought it wasn't 
25 something the White House should be pursuing, what's the it?  93 
1 A Trying to fight the results of the election and finding the missing ballots, 
2 pressuring --filing lawsuits in certain States where there didn't seem to be significant 
3 evidence and reaching out to State legislatures about that. So pretty much the way the 
4 White House was handling the post-election period, he felt that there could be dangerous 
5 repercussions in terms of precedents set for elections, as far as democracy, for the 6th, 
6 and he was hoping that we would concede. 
7 Q One of the things that came up fairly frequently in that post-election period 
8 was this idea of foreign interference in the election. Do you know whether Director 
9 Ratcliffe ever expressed his views on potential foreign interference in the election to the 
10 White House? 
11 A In my conversations with Mr. Ratcliffe, our conversations were more top-line 
12 interference in general, and the way I interpreted his stance was there's interference in 
13 every election, but this election isn't any different than elections in the past. After the 
14 6th, him and I had a conversation about some of the theories that had been pedaled the 
15 last couple of weeks. And he had said: Yeah, I heard that. I read about that. 
16 Who is the one that was really pumping to push that through? And I know he 
17 was involved in some conversations in the West Wing and with Mr. Meadows briefly 
18 throughout December, but I also do know that he tried to keep a little bit of a distance 
19 from all of that. 
20 Q Are you aware that he authored --"he" being Director Ratcliffe --authored a 
21 paper, an addendum calling into question, to some degree, the intelligence community's 
22 findings that there was no foreign interference with the election? I believe that was 
23 released around January the 7th. 
24 
25 A 
Q Could you repeat the memo subject? 
Yeah. It was either a paper or an addendum to the intelligence community  94 
1 report, and he called into question or raised concerns about the intelligence community's 
2 report. 
3 
4 
5 
6 A 
Q 
A 
Q We never had a conversation about that. 
Okay. 
And I don't remember hearing about that at the time. 
All right. Are you aware of any efforts from the White House or people 
7 within the White House to get Director Ratcliffe to take a position on foreign interference 
8 in the election? 
9 
10 A 
Q At the time, no. 
Are you aware of anybody from the Trump campaign or what was left of the 
11 Trump campaign, Mr. Giuliani, any of his associates getting Director Ratcliffe to take a 
12 position on the election? 
13 
14 
15 A 
Q 
A No, I am not aware of that. 
Okay. 
My conversations with Director Ratcliffe were more him checking in and 
16 trying to make sure that mostly I was doing okay and if I felt he could be helpful with Mr. 
17 Meadows at all, if a conversation would be helpful. But I think from my interpretation, 
18 staff were the ones that were actually facilitated. He didn't reach out much to Mr. 
19 Meadows, the director, during that period. 
20 All right. 
21 Ms. Cheney. Do you know if Mr. Ratcliffe had any discussions with the President 
22 about his view of this issue? 
23 
24 
25 Ms. Hutchinson. I am not sure. 
Ms. Cheney. Did he ever tell you that he shared those views? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I remember, on January 7th, him and I had a conversation. He  95 
1 was at the White House, and he had said that he had talked to the President in December 
2 about the election. He said something along the lines of: The President didn't want to 
3 hear what I had to say. 
4 But that is what I remember from my conversation, and the only reason it sticks 
5 out to me is I didn't remember him talking to Mr. Trump in December. I know that he 
6 had been at the White House a couple of times, but I never heard any chatter or any 
7 responses from him about his conversations until after the 6th. 
8 Ms. Cheney. Okay. And he didn't --did he talk to Mr. Meadows about this at 
9 all? 
10 Ms. Hutchinson. He could have. He was in our office a couple of times during 
11 that period, but I don't know. 
12 Ms. Cheney. Okay. 
13 Ms. Hutchinson. They were brief meetings. He was not there for the longer 
14 meetings that Mr. Meadows had. His marquis (ph) was at the White House. He had an 
15 office in the Eisenhower Building. So, if he was at the White House, he would essentially 
16 just walk over and pop his head in and see if Mr. Meadows had a couple of minutes, and 
17 they would duck in 5 or 10 minutes and have a quick conversation, and then he would go 
18 back over to the Eisenhower Building. 
19 Ms. Cheney. Okay. 
20 BY 
21 Q And just to be a little bit more specific on the questions I had asked you, one 
22 of the things that Director Ratcliffe called out in his January 7th, I will call it an annex or 
23 appendix was China, China's role in the election. 
24 Do you remember anybody in the White House asking Director Ratcliffe to take a 
25 position with respect to China and their role in the 2020 election?  1 
2 A 
Q I don't. 
All right. When we first met with you, you talked about being at the rally 
3 and getting certain information and more or less updates about what the Secret Service 96 
4 was encountering in the magnetometers at the rally on the Ellipse. We are not going to 
5 go back over that, but we have learned that Secret Service was aware of certain issues at 
6 the Capitol and the RNC over the DNC pipe bomb before the President left the Ellipse. 
7 Did you know that the Secret Service was getting reports like that while the 
8 President was speaking at the Ellipse? 
9 A I didn't know about the pipe bomb report, but I knew about reports of 
10 violence, of weapons that the Secret Service was getting that morning --the night before 
11 and that morning and throughout the afternoon, so pretty much in that 24-to 36-hour 
12 window. 
13 
14 
15 
16 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
17 the 6th. 
18 Q What about specific --
1 would probably say 24 hours. 
Sorry about that. 
No, that is okay. I was just going to say from 6 p.m. the 5th to 6 p.m. on 
What about specifically issues related to what was happening at the Capitol? 
19 So, while you and the President were still at the Ellipse, did you know whether Secret 
20 Service was getting information or reports through their channels about issues happening 
21 at the Capitol? 
22 A I had two or three phone conversations with Mr. Ornate when we were at 
23 the Ellipse, and then I had four men on Mr. Meadows' detail with me in between those 
24 individuals and then a few other of the bodies on the ground, just Secret Service doing 
25 advance --they were getting notifications through their radios, and Mr. Ornate in one  97 
1 phone conversation had called me and said: Make sure the chief knows that they are 
2 getting closer to the Capitol. They're having trouble stacking bodies. Something along 
3 those lines. That is not verbatim. 
4 
5 Ms. Cheney. What does that mean? 
Ms. Hutchinson. In like law enforcement terms or Secret Service or Capitol 
6 Police. I don't know if it is universal, but because it is a bigger complex, putting all of the 
7 bodies on one side, so they were trying to get --see, I guess Capitol Police wanted to have 
8 more people on the front of the Capitol that everybody was coming up to, and they were 
9 hearing that they were short bodies and having trouble with the bandwidth and numbers 
10 of Capitol Police officers available. 
11 And Mr. Ornate raised that with me to let Mr. Meadows know because Mr. 
12 Ornate was personally concerned that it was going to be a little --it was going to be 
13 violent and potentially before we even got back to the White House. 
14 Ms. Cheney. So Mr. Ornate called you while you were still at the rally? 
15 
16 Ms. Hutchinson. Correct. I think we had two or three conversations. 
Ms. Cheney. And one of the issues was the issue of the law enforcement 
17 stacking bodies? 
18 Ms. Hutchinson. Right. And that morning Mr. Ornate had, which I believe we 
19 talked about in the first deposition, I think in February but with the magnetometers, I 
20 think that is what they are called. 
21 
22 Ms. Cheney. Yeah, magnetometers, mags. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Yes, mags, and the weapons which came up frequently --not 
23 frequently but the night before and the morning of, mostly the morning of too because it 
24 involved flag poles and attachments that Secret Service was finding. So just general 
25 conversation that I was having with Service that morning at the rally. You know, I was  98 
1 just getting word of mouth through them and what they were hearing in their earpieces. 
2 Ms. Cheney. Are you aware or did you hear at the time that there had been an 
3 instruction to people to basically, you know, saw off pipes and in some cases to sharpen 
4 the tops of the pipes and turn them into weapons and attach flags to them? 
5 
6 Ms. Hutchinson. No. 
Ms. Cheney. Did you hear any of the Secret Service talking about the flag poles 
7 as weapons? 
8 Ms. Hutchinson. I heard Secret Service talking about flag poles as weapons but 
9 not about sawed off pipes. 
10 Ms. Cheney. And spears, using them as spears? 
11 Ms. Hutchinson. There were several reports that I recall Mr. Ornate and I talking 
12 about with flag poles that I don't know if they had actual spears attached to the end of 
13 them or if they were objects that resembled spears, and Mr. Ornate raising that as 
14 a --they are flag poles in general, but the Secret Service are classifying them as weapons 
15 if you are bringing them with a Presidential protectee just because of the length. They 
16 are not allowed to bring in an object of that length, but he had said these are weapons 
17 with actual weapons on them? 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 Ms. Cheney. Yeah. And when did you have that conversation? 
Ms. Hutchinson. That morning, the morning of the 6th? 
Ms. Cheney. And you said the night, basically 24 to 36 hours --
Ms. Hutchinson. I am thinking the time period, so meaning 24 hours as the 6th. 
Ms. Cheney. Okay. 
Ms. Hutchinson. And then 12 hours before. 
Ms. Cheney. You were hearing reports? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Correct.  1 
2 
3 
4 Ms. Cheney. Mostly from Mr. Ornate? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Correct. 
Ms. Cheney. Do you remember any other specific things that he said? 
Ms. Hutchinson. General concern about crowd size, the weapons. The 99 
5 President's concern is with allowing people to come in versus the people that were going 
6 to be out on the monument side. You know, nothing that I don't think we have already 
7 included in previous discussions, and I don't want to be redundant just for the sake of 
8 your time here. 
9 Great notetaking over there. 
10 But nothing else that specifically jumps out at me right now. And Mr. Ornate --I 
11 mean, we frequently had open conversations. He was so --it is possible that there were 
12 other things that came up and we discussed after the fact as well. But I remember our 
13 conversations mostly were based on the weapons and the number of bodies at the Ellipse 
14 rally and going to the Capitol that day mostly because of, one, the President's desired 
15 motorcade route and, two, Mr. Meadows wanting to also go up to the Capitol, which 
16 normally would have been feasible if the President couldn't, but we couldn't even do it 
17 for Mr. Meadows that day, so --
18 BY 
19 Q Going back to this idea of law enforcement having trouble stacking bodies 
20 and reports about that coming in while you are still at the Ellipse, do you know if Secret 
21 Service learned that rioters had overwhelmed police officers at the Capitol, run out of 
22 perimeter while you were still at the Ellipse, still in this period while you were you were 
23 here? 
24 A I don't remember if they received reports while they were still there. 
25 remember when I got back to the White House, I heard a lot of Secret Service agents  100 
1 talking about that. I don't remember having any conversation with anyone in Secret 
2 Service about that when we were still at the rally site, though. 
3 Q What do you remember the Secret Service agents that you were with at the 
4 rally site talking about with respect to the Capitol and what they were hearing? 
5 A The expectation that there was going to be thousands of people going up 
6 that way that day. I was talking with a few people in the Counter Assault Team, CAT 
7 Team, which they had one with Mr. Pence up there, and they had --they are in the offices 
8 downtown too. 
9 The Secret Service guys that I was talking to down there were primarily concerned 
10 and were coming to me and having these conversations because of the President's 
11 desired motorcade route, and they hadn't officially been notified, to my knowledge, that 
12 he was definitively not going to the Capitol. 
13 So there's a lot of concern that they were going to have to try to pull some 
14 last-minute logistical nightmare movement for them, and they were concerned about 
15 them for their jobs and for the safety of the President. And they had come to me 
16 saying, you know: We are getting reports that there's thousands of people in the 
17 streets. There's more bodies than they had anticipated right now. And they are 
18 hearing reports about the weapons that they were spotting from the Counter Surveillance 
19 Unit that was on the ground that day. But mostly coming to me to talk about: Can you 
20 please do something about the President going up there? 
21 And my guy saying: You are not going to let Mark go up there. Right? 
22 So anything that was pertinent to that was pretty much the conversations that I 
23 had at the Ellipse rally that day. 
24 
25 Q 
A Do you know if --do you know Bob Engel? 
I do.  101 
1 Q Do you know if he was getting these reports that you just mentioned at the 
2 Ellipse? 
3 A Bobby would have been. I didn't have any conversations with Bobby at the 
4 rally because he was standing at the foot of the stage that was set up on the Ellipse that 
5 day. 
6 Q Do you know if anybody communicated to the President before he left the 
7 Ellipse that there were issues happening at the Capitol, not enough bodies? 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 A Before he left the Ellipse to go back to the White House? 
Q Right. 
A I am not sure. 
Q Okay. 
A It was communicated to him by Mr. Engel that we wouldn't be able to bring 
13 him up to the Capitol because of security concerns for the motorcade route, but I don't 
14 know if Mr. Engel had given too much detail about the shortages of Capitol Police that 
15 day, of --I don't know how much depth he went into in the short walk that they had from 
16 the stage to his limo. 
17 Q Okay. Do you remember anybody raising issues about what's happening at 
18 the Capitol after the President got off stage and before he got in his limo? 
19 
20 
21 that? 
22 A Not to my knowledge. 
Q So you don't know either way, whether he did know that or didn't learn 
A Yeah, I don't know if anybody had a conversation, if Mr. Engel or staff had a 
23 conversation with him about security concerns at the Capitol. I know that there was 
24 conversations about motorcade security concerns going to the Capitol, but I don't know if 
25 anybody had raised with him that the Capitol was potentially or was under breach at the  1 time. 
2 
3 
4 
5 - Allright. 
Ms. Cheney. I just have some questions post-January 6th. 
-Yep. 
Ms. Cheney. So this won't take much longer. 
6 But can you just tell us, Cassidy, first of all, just in general, how would you 
7 describe, post-January 6th, the management in the West Wing, interactions with the 
8 President? 
9 Ms. Hutchinson. Limited interactions with the President, lazy management in 
10 the West Wing. I think, at that point, if you hadn't resigned or left quietly, you know, 102 
11 you were just there to go and just keep doing your job until the 20th. We were already 
12 a thin --we were already short staffed before the 6th. So, after the 6th, it was --the 
13 office was fairly empty. There just wasn't really much going on in that period. So I'd 
14 say maybe fair management, but I guess there wasn't too much to manage. 
15 
16 Ms. Cheney. Did you see the President or interact with him at all. 
Ms. Hutchinson. I saw him on the 19th, but I didn't see him between --and even 
17 my interaction on the 19th was extremely brief, which Meadows and I ducked into the 
18 Oval Dining Room and into the Oval Office twice that day. We might have exchanged 
19 five or six words. It wasn't anything significant. 
20 Ms. Cheney. Why were you in there? 
21 Ms. Hutchinson. The first time we would bring in --I had a few things that 
22 Members asked me to sign for him, and I asked Mr. Meadows --usually I wouldn't ask Mr. 
23 Meadows to go in with me, but I asked Mr. Meadows to go in for me because I didn't 
24 want to go in and ask for it alone at the time, and then --
25 Ms. Cheney. Why not?  103 
1 Ms. Hutchinson. I just didn't feel it was appropriate interaction to have. He 
2 had limited interactions with the staff, and I had a relationship with Mr. Trump, but it 
3 wasn't something that I, especially during that period, was comfortable just going in and 
4 asking him for something, especially for Members of Congress at the time. 
5 
6 Ms. Cheney. Which Members of Congress? 
Ms. Hutchinson. To be honest, I don't --nothing that I haven't mentioned in my 
7 deposition so far. Members of Congress that very infrequently asked the White House 
8 for things that wanted some memento from him before he left. 
9 Ms. Cheney. I appreciate that. 
10 And for the record, it wasn't me. 
11 
12 Ms. Hutchinson. It was not you, and it was not Mr. Kinzinger either. 
Ms. Cheney. Did anybody advise you not to be in contact with the President? 
13 Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Meadows and the staff that was still present, Mr. Meadows 
14 had generally advised: If you want to talk to him, let me know beforehand. Maybe we 
15 can do it together. Let's not bombard him right now. 
16 And I felt that staffers were good at reading the room and would understand that 
17 that just meant let's limit the outreach, not bombard him with requests and asks. 
18 
19 issue? 
20 
21 Ms. Cheney. Now, did you have any discussions with Mr. Cipollone about this 
Ms. Hutchinson. Staff exposure to --not to my recollection. 
Ms. Cheney. Do you recall any issues that you had interactions with Mr. 
22 Cipollone about post-January 6th? 
23 Ms. Hutchinson. Issues meaning like personal problems I had with Mr. 
24 Cipollone? 
25 Ms. Cheney. No, no.  104 
Ms. Hutchinson. Okay. 1 
2 Ms. Cheney. I mean, you know, discussions. I know we talked about the HPSCI 
3 and the xeroxing, but beyond that, discussions, contacts with Mr. Cipollone? 
4 Ms. Hutchinson. Other than the documents that we have previously discussed, 
5 the main issue that I was working with Mr. Cipollone, but also White House Counsel's 
6 Office in general, was the Presidential pardons. 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 Ms. Cheney. And are you aware of any Members of Congress seeking pardons? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Yes, ma'am. 
Ms. Cheney. Can you tell us who? 
Ms. Hutchinson. It was the December 21st meeting, those Members. 
Ms. Cheney. Everyone that was in the December 21st meeting? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I don't want to blanket everyone. There were advocates for -­
Ms. Hutchinson. Very popular. 
Ms. Cheney. I know, the chief of staff. 
Ms. Hutchinson. There were --I guess Mr. Gaetz and Mr. Brooks I know had 
16 both advocated there be a blanket pardon for Members involved in that meeting and a 
17 handful of other Members that weren't at the December 21st meeting as the preemptive 
18 pardons. Mr. Gaetz was personally pushing for a pardon, and he was doing so since 
19 early December. I am not sure why. Mr. Gaetz reached out to me to ask if he could 
20 have a meeting with Mr. Meadows about receiving a Presidential pardon. This is before 
21 I had even heard any conversation about the topic of preemptive pardons, and then --
22 Ms. Cheney. How did they define preemptive pardons? 
23 Ms. Hutchinson. A pardon for a crime that he had not yet been accused of or 
24 that they had not yet been --
25 Ms. Cheney. So he was asking about that in early December?  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 Ms. Hutchinson. Correct. 
Ms. Cheney. And was that connected to the sex-trafficking investigation? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I don't know for certain. 
Ms. Cheney. How did he describe it to you? 
Ms. Hutchinson. He was careful in his phrasing to me, but he had said that he 105 
6 felt that, under the Biden regime --those were his phrasing --that there was going to be a 
7 witch hunt after him, and he had been a team player for Mr. Trump since the start, and 
8 only Mr. Trump could help him through that, and he could help him by giving him a 
9 preemptive pardon. He never mentioned the phrase "sex trafficking" to me, but he 
10 mentioned the Department of Justice under the Trump administration and under the 
11 Biden administration, essentially alluded to the Department of Justice looking into his 
12 activities but not saying if it was an investigation that was currently underway or if he was 
13 anticipating one in the future. Regardless, though, he felt that if he could get a pardon, 
14 that would protect him from any future issues he could encounter with the --
15 Ms. Cheney. Forever? 
16 
17 Ms. Hutchinson. Forever is the way I understood it. 
Ms. Cheney. And what about activities connected to --so you said everybody 
18 that was in the 21st? 
19 Ms. Hutchinson. So then he had phased away from that temporarily and then 
20 began advocating for the President, the then President, to pardon a swath of Members 
21 that were involved in electoral efforts, post-election efforts. And Mr. Gaetz had phrased 
22 it to me: We're all team players. They're all going to come after us. Mr. Trump 
23 needs to protect us right now. 
24 Once he realized that was a no-go, he then resorted back to, "Well, I still want my 
25 own personal pardon," which is post-January 6th. I remember him coming to the White  106 
1 House twice and meeting with Mr. Meadows and that being the topic of both meetings. 
2 I don't remember the dates, but they were in the morning. I think one of the dates was 
3 December 15th --or January 15th or 16th. I don't remember the other date. So 
4 he --Mr. Gaetz went through three little phases, but there were a bunch of Members that 
5 had asked to be pardoned. 
6 
7 
8 
9 Ms. Cheney. Did they all contact you? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Not all of them, but several of them did. 
Ms. Cheney. So you mentioned Mr. Gaetz, Mr. Brooks. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Biggs did. Mr. Jordan talked about congressional pardons, 
10 but he never asked me for one. It was more for an update on whether the White House 
11 was going to pardon Members of Congress. Mr. Gohmert asked for one as well. 
12 Ms. Cheney. And do you know if Mr. Jordan talked to Mr. Meadows about a 
13 pardon? 
14 Ms. Hutchinson. I know he talked to him about congressional pardons, but I 
15 don't know if he asked Mr. Meadows for a pardon. It is my understanding that he didn't 
16 ever ask for a pardon, but, you know, Mr. Meadows would have the more --the clearest 
17 answer or Mr. Jordan would have the clearest answer. 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 Ms. Cheney. Any --
Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Perry asked for a pardon too. I'm sorry. 
Ms. Cheney. Mr. Perry, did he talk to you directly? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Yes, he did. 
Ms. Cheney. And what did he say? 
Ms. Hutchinson. At first it was more of a sarcastic way of: Cass, do you think I 
24 am going to get that pardon or have you worked on my pardon at all? 
25 No. And I was, like: Not yet, sir.  107 
1 And then he had asked, like, early January for a clear status update: Has White 
2 House Counsel's Office made a decision on congressional pardons? I think it would be a 
3 really good thing. It would be a great message to send. 
4 I said: I can connect you with somebody in the White House Counsel's Office if 
5 you would like. 
6 
7 
8 them. 
9 
10 And he said: That would be great. 
And I talked to Mr. Meadows about it, and he said: I will deal with that with 
Ms. Cheney. So you didn't connect him to White House counsel? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Meadows may have. I am not sure or maybe he just 
11 finished the conversation with Mr. Perry himself. 
12 Ms. Cheney. Any other Members? 
13 Ms. Hutchinson. Not that I recall right now. Those are the ones that I am just 
14 most confident of too. 
15 
16 Ms. Cheney. Did Marjorie Taylor Greene contact you? 
Ms. Hutchinson. No, she didn't contact me about it. I heard that she had asked 
17 White House Counsel's Office for a pardon from Mr. Philbin, but I didn't frequently 
18 communicate with Ms. Greene. 
19 Ms. Cheney. So, on these issues, the Member pardons, you were basically sort 
20 of --they contacted you, and then you would coordinate either with Mr. Meadows or 
21 with White House counsel? 
22 Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah. And, to a certain degree, kind of let some of their 
23 requests just be water under the bridge because I knew they weren't going to happen, 
24 and I didn't think it was really worth raising to White House Counsel's Office. White 
25 House Counsel's Office was aware that Members of Congress wanted pardons, and I felt  108 
1 that, if it was something that they wanted to act on, they would notify the Chief of Staff's 
2 Office, and we would facilitate from there, and we would have a good idea of who had 
3 already asked for them, but I wasn't --I mean, I was also sort of inundated with Member 
4 requests at this time just for various things, and it wasn't something that I was really 
5 tracking that closely or was paying super close attention to, just by nature of the request. 
6 Ms. Cheney. Did you hear any discussions about pardons for any people who 
7 attacked the Capitol? 
8 Ms. Hutchinson. Yes. Mr. Meadows had discussed that, but it wasn't anything 
9 that I personally felt was really considered that deeply. You know, there were 
10 conversations about it, but I think from the start it was already seen as a --that would be 
11 a very big step to take, and legally it is probably not the greatest option for the 
12 administration. 
13 Do you have any more questions about it? 
14 Ms. Cheney. Yes. So the discussions, were they discussions between Mr. 
15 Meadows and Mr. Cipollone or Mr. Philbin or --
16 Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah. Mr. Meadows had conversations with Mr. Cipollone 
17 and Philbin --
18 
19 Mr. Passantino. Just avoid specifics of the advice. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Right. 
20 Mr. Meadows had raised it with them because he thought it was an idea worth 
21 pursuing, and from my recollection, which I believe is pretty accurate, the idea soon was 
22 no longer entertained. 
23 Ms. Cheney. Do you know, did he define which people who attacked the 
24 Capitol? 
25 Ms. Hutchinson. I remember Mr. Meadows saying: I am hearing --this would  109 
1 be a general quote, but I remember Mr. Meadows saying he was hearing from people 
2 that he knows suggesting that the administration take the step of pardoning people who 
3 were at the rally that day, those who broke into the Capitol for various reasons. One of 
4 them Mr. Meadows had a conversation that it is a Capitol Building; the Capitol does 
5 public tours, so they had the right to be in there. 
6 
7 Ms. Cheney. Mr. Meadows said that? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Correct, Mr. Meadows said that. And that they --those who 
8 broke into the building were just walking through the procession lines. I don't know if 
9 that is --
10 
11 Ms. Cheney. At the rope expansion in Statuary Hall? 
Ms. Hutchinson. That's correct. Mr. Meadows was personally concerned that 
12 there would be a connotation of violence associated with everybody that had gone to the 
13 Capitol that day, so he had thought it was an idea worth entertaining and raising to White 
14 House Counsel's Office to pardon those who had been inside the Capitol, and this is also, I 
15 guess, before many of the arrests happened. So this was just in the very, very early 
16 stages of this too, so --
17 Ms. Cheney. So were you in a meeting where Mr. Meadows said this, or did he 
18 say it to you? 
19 Ms. Hutchinson. He had said it kind of frequently on the 7th and 8th. He said 
20 to me a couple of times in his office. He had meetings with White House counsel's 
21 Office. I know that he had a conversation with the President about it too, but I don't 
22 know the point when his opinion shifted, if it ever really did shift, before the 20th. You 
23 know, I think he accepted that there was legal parameters that could potentially be in 
24 jeopardy if they were to do that, but I recall him still wanting to come up with an option 
25 or a way to figure out issues of some of those pardons.  1 
2 110 
Ms. Cheney. Did he tell you how the President felt about this? 
Ms. Hutchinson. In the days immediately following January 6th, I remember Mr. 
3 Meadows saying that the President did want to consider pardoning those at the rally and 
4 in the Capitol that day. But I didn't follow up about if or when the President's opinion 
5 shifted on that, and I wasn't privy to any personal conversations that they had about it. 
6 
7 
8 
9 Ms. Cheney. Did you talk to Mr. Cipollone about it? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Not to Mr. Cipollone, no. 
Ms. Cheney. Mr. Philbin? 
Ms. Hutchinson. No. I had a conversation with some of the --a few staffers up 
10 in the White House Counsel's Office about the idea, and the White House Counsel's Office 
11 was all on the same page of the conclusion that it was not going to be pursued for legal 
12 reasons. 
13 
14 Ms. Cheney. Did Mr. Meadows seek a pardon? 
Ms. Hutchinson. There was a period where several White House staffers and 
15 administration officials wanted to pardon themselves prior to leaving, and he was one of 
16 them. I don't remember him lobbying the President very hard for it, but I know that, if 
17 there were going to be staff pardons, he wanted to be included in that group. 
18 Ms. Cheney. And how do you know that? 
19 
20 
21 Ms. Hutchinson. Because he had told me. 
Ms. Cheney. Can you tell us what he said? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Not a direct quote, but along the lines of: Well, if they are 
22 going to get pardons, I want one too. 
23 
24 Ms. Cheney. And who else on the staff? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I don't remember. Um, I don't remember. I just remember 
25 there being a smaller group of staff and some of the President's kids that they wanted to  111 
1 discuss pardoning. I don't believe Mr. Kushner, Ms. Trump were included in that group, 
2 but I believe it was mostly agency officials. I don't remember many people --
3 Ms. Cheney. What do you mean by agency individuals? 
4 Ms. Hutchinson. Like DOD or DHS. I remember Mr. Meadows mentioning Mr. 
5 Scavino's name. 
6 
7 Ms. Cheney. And he told you that Mr. Scavino wanted a pardon? 
Ms. Hutchinson. That he be considered. If there were going to be staff 
8 pardons, that he be considered in that group. 
9 Ms. Cheney. And who from DOD? 
10 Ms. Hutchinson. I don't remember. I remember Mr. Meadows saying: We 
11 need to think of our friends at DOD and DHS too. 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 Ms. Cheney. But you don't remember who it would have been? 
Ms. Hutchinson. No. 
Ms. Cheney. Kash Patel? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Potentially, but I am not sure. I didn't ask names. 
Ms. Cheney. Okay. 
Ms. Hutchinson. This was more just small talk if I was in his office or if he was 
18 meeting with lawyers, but it wasn't something that I ever really paid that close of 
19 attention to or took very seriously? 
20 
21 
22 Ms. Cheney. Family members? 
Ms. Hutchinson. It was discussed, but, again, I think shot down fairly quickly. 
Ms. Cheney. And were you aware if any family members were asking for 
23 pardons? 
24 Ms. Hutchinson. I wasn't privy to the conversations of a particular family 
25 member or members asking personally for a pardon, but I heard Mr. Meadows say that  112 
1 some of Mr. Trump's children would like to be pardoned. 
2 Ms. Cheney. Did he say Don Jr.? 
3 Ms. Hutchinson. I don't remember. I am trying also to draw the distinction of 
4 what I knew at the time and --
5 
6 
7 Ms. Cheney. Yeah, I can appreciate that. 
Ms. Hutchinson. --what I did after. 
Ms. Cheney. Did you ever have any discussions with any of the Trump family 
8 about pardons? 
9 Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Kushner and I had a few conversations about pardons 
10 because he had been receiving a lot of pardon requests and several Members had 
11 reached out to him. So he had come to me and said, you know: Are you keeping track 
12 of Member pardon requests? 
13 I said: Well, it is really part of Legislative Affairs, but if they are reaching out to 
14 you directly, just let me know, and I will reach out to them because you shouldn't be 
15 fielding direct requests for pardons for Members of Congress. 
16 But Mr. Kushner seemed actively involved in deciding who should be pardoned. 
17 Ms. Cheney. Can you explain that a little bit? 
18 Ms. Hutchinson. Because of his work in criminal justice reform and his outreach 
19 in the community, he had staffers that had their own tracking system and were referring 
20 everything up to White House Counsel's Office at the time, which was a similar process 
21 that the Office of Legislative Affairs should have had. However, at this time, there also 
22 was kind of a vacuum of power and responsibilities because that kind of fell onto the 
23 Chief of Staff's Office's plates. So we were just kind of maneuvering as things had 
24 evolved in those days. So maybe Jared --Mr. Kushner is the only one that I personally 
25 talked to pardons about really, but it was more along the lines of streamlining the  1 processes in the days leading up to January 20th. 
2 Ms. Cheney. And what about Mr. Stone? 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 Ms. Hutchinson. For Mr. Stone to be pardoned? 
Ms. Cheney. Uh-huh, for his activities post --
Ms. Hutchinson. I thought Mr. Trump pardoned him that summer. 
Mr. Passantino. Yeah, but she is asking for a second one. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Okay. I'm sorry. I am not aware of Mr. Stone asking for a 
8 pardon. 
9 Ms. Cheney. Mr. Flynn? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Not that I remember. 
Ms. Cheney. Mr. Bannon? 113 
10 
11 
12 Ms. Hutchinson. I recall hearing that Mr. Bannon had asked for a pardon, but I 
13 don't know who that request was filtered through. I remember it coming down to our 
14 office at one point, but I don't know if it was in the form of followup to a conversation 
15 that White House Counsel's Office had with Mr. Bannon or if they were looking to have a 
16 conversation with Mr. Meadows because of the conversation that Mr. Meadows had with 
17 Mr. Bannon. 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 time. 
25 Ms. Cheney. Post-January 6th? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Post-January 6th. 
Ms. Cheney. And did they give any details or -­
Ms. Hutchinson. No. 
Ms. Cheney. And Alex Jones? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I don't recall his name being associated with pardons at the 
Ms. Cheney. Since?  114 
1 Ms. Hutchinson. I've heard since some of these names that were entertained 
2 by --not entertained. I've heard since some of these people had requested pardons or 
3 reached out to various figures in the administration, whether it be White House counsel, 
4 Mr. Kushner, some of Mr. Kushner's staffers. But, at the time, I don't remember them 
5 asking for pardons, and I don't remember Mr. Meadows raising that with me either. 
6 
7 Ms. Cheney. Is there anybody else that you recall? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Not to my knowledge, you know. I mean, other than the 
8 running list of pardons that we had internally and that were being acted on or discarded 
9 in the days leading up to the 20th. 
10 
11 
12 
13 Ms. Cheney. What about Mr. Nunes? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I don't recall Mr. Nunes' name being mentioned for a pardon. 
Ms. Cheney. Do you recall any discussion about the 25th Amendment? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I do. 
14 Ms. Cheney. Can you tell us about that? 
15 Ms. Hutchinson. I remember, on January 7th, 8th, potentially the 9th, there was 
16 concern in the West Wing in conversations raised with Mr. Meadows about whether the 
17 25th Amendment would be invoked or if it actually --if it was invoked, if he would have to 
18 leave office prior to January 20th, and several Members had reached out to me about the 
19 25th Amendment in discussions that they were also overhearing, which I then raised with 
20 Mr. Meadows, to which he had said to me: Don't worry about the 25th Amendment. 
21 It is not going to happen. 
22 Ms. Cheney. What were the discussions internally inside the West Wing about 
23 it? 
24 Ms. Hutchinson. Staffers had heard, overheard from different Cabinet 
25 Secretaries that there were discussions about invoking the 25th Amendment and, if so,  115 
1 who would actually stand for it, if there would be enough --I am not sure of the nuances 
2 with it, but if there would be enough leverage behind it to remove Mr. Trump from office. 
3 And Mr. Meadows from the start of those conversations was fairly dismissive and 
4 didn't seem to think there was much viability to having those conversations. 
5 
6 Ms. Cheney. Do you remember which Cabinet Members? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Were talking about raising the 25th Amendment or --well, I 
7 remember Secretary Pompeo reaching out to Mr. Meadows and having a conversation. 
8 And I remember --I remember definitively Mr. Pompeo, but, at the time, I don't recall the 
9 Cabinet Secretaries that were interested in having detailed conversations about following 
10 through and invoking the 25th Amendment. 
11 
12 Ms. Cheney. Do you know what Mr. Pompeo's views were? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Pompeo reached out to have the conversation with Mr. 
13 Meadows in case he hadn't heard the discussions amongst Cabinet Secretaries. And, 
14 from what I understand, it was more of a: This is what I am hearing. I want you to be 
15 aware of it, but I also think it is worth putting it on your radar because you are the chief of 
16 staff. You're technically the boss of all of the Cabinet Secretaries. And, you know, if 
17 conversations progress, you should be ready to take action on this. I am concerned for 
18 you and your positioning with this. You know, reach out to me if you have any 
19 questions or like I can be helpful with you at all. 
20 I don't recall Mr. Pompeo having --I don't recall Mr. Pompeo reaching out saying 
21 that he would stand for it or against it. It was more of a: I am here if you need me. 
22 This is what I am hearing, but let's stay in touch with this because, you know, this is the 
23 early stages of it, he personally saw the opportunity for something to happen had there 
24 been enough of the Cabinet Secretaries behind it. 
25 Ms. Cheney. Did you hear the phone call?  116 
1 Ms. Hutchinson. No. He sent --I remember he had --his assistant reach out to 
2 Ms. Thurston to have a call with Mr. Meadows, and Mr. Meadows was busy, so he --Mr. 
3 Pompeo called my secure line, and that was the gist of my conversation with him. 
4 
5 Ms. Cheney. Oh, you talked to him directly? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Correct. And then I know that him and Mr. Pompeo talked 
6 directly and had a lengthier conversation. 
7 Ms. Cheney. And did he say anything about Mr. Mnuchin? 
8 Ms. Hutchinson. Not in my conversation with him, not that I remember Mr. 
9 Meadows raising with me after their conversation. 
10 Ms. Cheney. And do you recall about what day this would have been that he 
11 called? 
12 
13 
14 Ms. Hutchinson. Perhaps the 7th or 8th. 
Ms. Cheney. And was he still overseas? Do you remember? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I don't remember. He didn't reach out --he called --so, in our 
15 office, we had a secure phone line that rang both me and Ms. Thurston's desks, and I had 
16 just answered the phone. He knew that he could get either of us on it, so he didn't call 
17 our office with the intention of reaching me or her. He wanted to connect with us 
18 personally to relay the message that his assistant had tried to relay when she tried to 
19 connect with Mr. Meadows. 
20 Ms. Cheney. Okay. And so he was saying he was alerting you to the fact that 
21 there were Cabinet Members having this discussion? 
22 Ms. Hutchinson. Correct. 
23 Ms. Cheney. Did he name any Cabinet Members? 
24 Ms. Hutchinson. No. And I had loosely heard about it just from Members of 
25 Congress, so I kind of knew he talked about when he what he was talking about when he  1 reached out to me, but I didn't really press him much. I wasn't --I didn't feel it was 
2 appropriate for me to have a lengthy conversation with him about the nuances of the 
3 25th Amendment at the time because it was --he wasn't trying to talk to me about it. 
4 He just wanted to get Mr. Meadows' attention. 
5 Ms. Cheney. Do you remember anything else from that phone call? 
6 Ms. Hutchinson. It was fairly brief. 
Ms. Cheney. Did you hear directly from any other Cabinet Members? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I didn't. 117 
7 
8 
9 Ms. Cheney. Do you know of any others who may have talked to Mr. Meadows 
10 about this? 
11 Ms. Hutchinson. Well, is Directive Ratcliffe technically a Cabinet Member? We 
12 had talked about the 25th Amendment personally on the 7th --on the 7th or the 8th, but 
13 not that he would stand for or against it. It was more like a conversation that I had with 
14 Mr. Pompeo.  118 
1 
2 [6:45 p.m.] 
3 Ms. Cheney. And what did Mr. Ratcliffe say? 
4 Ms. Hutchinson. That he had heard Cabinet Secretaries talking about invoking 
5 the 25th Amendment. And in my conversation with him, he was a little bit more 
6 definitive with his stance, which was, I don't think it's going to be something that's 
7 actually going to happen, but it's worth keeping on our radars in the next couple days. 
8 Ms. Cheney. And did he indicate to you whether he would support it or not? 
9 Ms. Hutchinson. He didn't, and I didn't ask him. 
10 Ms. Cheney. Anybody else? 
11 
12 
13 Ms. Hutchinson. Not to my recollection. 
Ms. Cheney. Any other officials who maybe weren't Cabinet members? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. O'Brien had talked about it a little bit on the 7th, but, 
14 again, more of a conversation that he was overhearing. The 25th Amendment, he was 
15 asking various officials in the West Wing if they thought that it was something that would 
16 actually happen and if there should be --I remember him asking if there should be a 
17 meeting with Mr. Trump about it. 
18 And Mr. Meadows said, no, no, let's not try to schedule that meeting with 
19 Mr. Trump and let's not raise the topic of the 25th Amendment with Mr. Trump. 
20 Ms. Cheney. What did Mr. O'Brien want to say to Mr. Trump? 
21 Ms. Hutchinson. He wanted to, from my understanding, he wanted to sit down 
22 with Mr. Trump and brief him on what would happen if the 25th Amendment were 
23 invoked, what the time line of that could look like, and more of, like, the nuance pieces 
24 with it. And it just wasn't a conversation that Mr. Meadows wanted to have. 
25 Ms. Cheney. Did Mr. Meadows say why?  119 
1 Ms. Hutchinson. No. It was more of a, no, no, I don't think it's --we should 
2 raise that with Mr. Trump right now. I think it's a bad time. Keep an eye on it, Robert, 
3 is what he had said. 
4 
5 Ms. Cheney. And did Mr. O'Brien report back at all? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Not to my knowledge. Mr. O'Brien would come in and out of 
6 our office a lot. So it's possible that they had a whole conversation that I wasn't aware 
7 of, but I wasn't physically present for any follow-up conversation. 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 Ms. Cheney. And what about Vice President Pence? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Could you elaborate on that? 
Ms. Cheney. Any discussions with Vice President Pence? 
Ms. Hutchinson. About the 25th? 
Ms. Cheney. Uh-huh. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Not to my knowledge. 
14 But the first time I saw Mr. Pence and his staff after the 6th was --I don't have the 
15 date in front of me but it was the date that he met with the President in the Oval dining 
16 room. And he was in the West Wing very briefly that day. 
17 So I don't believe he spoke with Mr. Meadows on the phone but he definitely 
18 didn't speak with Mr. Meadows in person about the 25th Amendment. And to my 
19 knowledge, none of his staff did either. 
20 
21 
22 Ms. Cheney. Anybody else on the National Security Council staff? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Not that I recall. 
Ms. Cheney. And what about discussions with Secretary Milley --Secretary 
23 Miller --during this period? 
24 Ms. Hutchinson. I wasn't privy to any conversations with Secretary Miller about 
25 the 25th Amendment.  120 
1 Ms. Cheney. Any conversations at all, not just about the 25th Amendment, but 
2 with the Secretary of Defense post the January 6th period? 
3 Ms. Hutchinson. Not that I recall. Not that I recall. 
4 
5 
6 
7 Ms. Cheney. And what about General Milley? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Not that I recall. 
Ms. Cheney. Did they talk to Mr. Meadows regularly or --
Ms. Hutchinson. Somewhat regularly. Mr. Meadows had a longstanding policy 
8 of having a morning call with Secretary Pompeo and General Milley, which I believe 
9 tapered off mid-December, mid-to late December. There's morning briefing calls that 
10 they had scheduled. 
11 General Milley was frequently a presence in the West Wing prior to the election, 
12 too. But I don't recall him talking afterwards about reaching out to Mr. Meadows 
13 directly afterwards. And if they had, it would have been very infrequent interactions. 
14 It wasn't anything to the depth that they once were. 
15 Ms. Cheney. That was sort of --that tapered off, you said, mid-December or so? 
16 
17 
18 Ms. Hutchinson. Correct. 
Ms. Cheney. Was there a reason why it tapered off? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I'm not sure. At the time I understood schedules were getting 
19 a little bit busier with foreign travel and holiday travel and they would connect on a 
20 secure line. So it was a little bit more difficult to access that. 
21 In the following weeks, I learned afterwards from Mr. Meadows that he just didn't 
22 want to continue hosting the calls for a reason I never asked for. But his relationship 
23 with General Milley was vert strained to start with. 
24 So I think, once they had tapered off, it was just mutually known that it wasn't 
25 really a professional relationship. But they were going to go out of their way to do  121 
1 regular updates unless there was something that either of them needed to be briefed on 
2 for national security reasons. 
3 Ms. Cheney. Did they have a falling out? 
4 Ms. Hutchinson. Not a falling out that I think would mark the end of a 
5 professional relationship. Again, the relationship at times was very strained. 
6 And I think, especially after the 6th, unless there was a dire need for there to be a 
7 national security call convened, it was just neither of them are going to reach out to have 
8 small talk about what was going on in the world. 
9 Ms. Cheney. And did you hear at any time about efforts by members of the 
10 Cabinet to convene a Cabinet meeting? 
11 Ms. Hutchinson. I had heard rumors about it, but I didn't know if there was any 
12 truth it to and I didn't really press much further. 
13 
14 
15 
16 Ms. Cheney. So nobody reached out to you, none of the Cabinet members? 
Ms. Hutchinson. No. 
Ms. Cheney. And tell us about the rumors that you heard. 
Ms. Hutchinson. I mean, it's pretty straightforward that there was --that 
17 Cabinet members were considering convening a meeting to discuss who would be on 
18 board with the 25th Amendment should there be a reason or a conclusion drawn to 
19 invoke it or pursue the 25th Amendment. I don't remember many details emerging 
20 from that conversation at the time. Now I've since read a few things about it. But --
21 
22 
23 Ms. Cheney. Do you know if Mr. Meadows had any discussions about that? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I don't. 
Ms. Cheney. How frequently was Mr. Meadows speaking to Mr. --to President 
24 Trump during this period? 
25 Ms. Hutchinson. Fairly frequently. He didn't really --I don't recall their  122 
1 personal relationship taking a massive hit during the post-January 6th period. 
2 Mr. Meadows approached their relationship delicately, I think, and he was careful 
3 not to upset him in any way. But he would still frequently be with the President in the 
4 Oval. They would have lunch together. He didn't really avoid the President in any way. 
5 He mostly went out of his way to avoid other people that shouldn't be meeting with the 
6 President meeting with the President. 
7 Ms. Cheney. Who was that? 
8 Ms. Hutchinson. I mean, people just wanted to do their --say their last rites with 
9 the President before they left office. And he was being a gatekeeper to keep people out 
10 and respect the President's wishes, which was to not have hordes of people in and out of 
11 the Oval all day and just keep it with the closer circle of advisers that he knew and 
12 trusted. 
13 Ms. Cheney. Are you aware of any efforts post-January 6th by people like Mr. 
14 Raiklin or others? 
15 
16 Ms. Hutchinson. Who? I'm sorry? 
Ms. Cheney. Ivan Raiklin or Phil Waldron, efforts post the 6th to continue 
17 making these claims? 
18 Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Waldron texted me afterwards, after the 6th. I think it 
19 was a text that I turned over. I don't know if that was the text or if he had called me. 
20 But Mr. Waldron did say --I think it was a text --that there still was evidence out there 
21 saying that Mr. Trump had won the election. And I don't know if he raised it with 
22 anybody else in the West Wing or --
23 Ms. Cheney. Did you respond to him? 
24 
25 Ms. Hutchinson. No. 
Ms. Cheney. Are you aware of any other documents that Mr. Meadows may  1 have been copying at the time? 
2 
3 
4 Ms. Hutchinson. Specific documents, no. And copying, no. 
Ms. Cheney. Removing? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Meadows removed documents from the White House in 
5 the post-January 6th period up until leaving the White House. Some, I believe, were 123 
6 what he had saw as mementos, things that the President had signed for him, things that I 
7 believe are okay to take out of the West Wing. Others, not so sure. 
8 But, again, those documents, I had very, very limited visibility on what he was 
9 taking or what he had potentially taken care of in his own way. 
10 Ms. Cheney. What does that mean? 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 Ms. Hutchinson. In the fireplace. 
Ms. Cheney. Did you see --do you need to take a minute? 
Mr. Passantino. Do you want to take a break? 
Yeah, let's take a break. It's 7 o'clock. 
Ms. Cheney. I know. 
[Recess.] 
Ms. Cheney. Do you want to go back on the record? 
18 So, Cassidy, at the end of the administration Mr. Meadows, he was burning 
19 documents in the fireplace? 
20 Ms. Hutchinson. Can you define how you perceive end? Is that November to 
21 January, or is that post-January 6th? 
22 
23 
24 Ms. Cheney. Both. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Okay. November to January, yes. 
And to my recollection, I personally remember it being a little bit more frequent 
25 pre-January 6th. I remember seeing maybe two or three times post-January 6th. But,  124 
1 again, I don't think I'm aware of every time he did it. It was just if I ducked in and seen it 
2 happen or by being in there and talking to him about other things. So it was just by 
3 proximity of association at the time. 
4 Ms. Cheney. And in the last, that last week or so, as you-all were leaving, would 
5 you say it was just sort of maintained the same pace? 
6 Ms. Hutchinson. I believe that we stopped lighting the fireplace around January 
7 16th, 15th or 16th. And if I had the --it was when he started moving all of his items out 
8 of the --his office, there's a photo on Twitter. I would know the date if I saw it. 
9 But Mrs. Meadows was coming to the White House. And she didn't --the smell 
10 of the fireplace and the smoke would give her a headache. So we stopped lighting it 
11 when she was coming to the White House to help him move his belongings out. 
12 Ms. Cheney. And do you know where he was taking his belongings? 
13 
14 Ms. Hutchinson. Back to his condo in Old Town Alexandria. 
Ms. Cheney. So when that fire --when you stopped lighting the fire, did you see 
15 him destroy documents in any other ways? 
16 Ms. Hutchinson. No. He took documents home but there was --other than 
17 burn bags, which is the authorized document discarding. 
18 Ms. Cheney. I think-just had a couple more questions.  1 
2 
3 Q 125 
BY 
Just very quickly, this idea of the President potentially pardoning the 
4 attackers, the people who entered the Capitol, do you know where Mr. Meadows learned 
5 of this idea? Did he come up with that on his own? 
6 A I don't know where he learned of it. I remember him telling me that him 
7 and Mrs. Meadows had a conversation about it and I remember him saying that 
8 Mrs. Meadows thought it was a good idea. And that's when he had talked about how 
9 the media was overblowing it and most of the individuals who had entered the Capitol 
10 were doing so in a peaceful way. 
11 
12 Q 
A Do you remember whether the President thought it was a good idea? 
I don't recall if he --I don't recall his opinion on it. I wasn't personally 
13 involved in the conversations, and I didn't at the time ask Mr. Meadows what the 
14 President thought of it. 
15 Q What about the pardoning the President himself? Did you ever hear any 
16 discussions about that idea? 
17 A I heard Mr. Meadows mention that, but in passerby conversation with me, If 
18 we're going do all these pardons, the President wants a pardon, I want a pardon, just like 
19 in that same breath of the conversation where we're talking about pardon broadly. 
20 And I believe I sat down with him about pardons, because I was getting inundated 
21 from Member requests, not necessarily asking for the personal pardons but with their 
22 constituents, they wanted a pardon or whoever it might have been. We had hundreds 
23 of pardon requests, if not thousands. And the White House Counsel's office was also 
24 inundated. 
25 And that's when Mr. Meadows had mentioned some staffers are asking for a  126 
1 preemptive pardon. Some campaign people are asking for a preemptive pardon. 
2 Heck, if all these people are asking for a pardon, I want a pardon. Even the President 
3 might get a pardon. 
4 And I just I think tried to reroute the conversation back to why I was interested in 
5 having him in the first place which was, okay, which ones do we want to actually consider 
6 here? How do you want to streamline this process so we're not drowning the White 
7 House Counsel's Office with pardon requests the last 10 days? 
8 
9 Q 
A Did he say why the President would consider pardoning himself? 
Nothing specific to the President, but it was the same conversation of at this 
10 point it was when Democrats take the White House, there's going to be a witch hunt and 
11 people are going to be after all of us and this is a potential way to ensure protection for 
12 the next 4 years from unjust investigations. 
13 
14 Q 
A Related to January 6th, though, at least in part? 
That's the first time I had heard the idea of personal pardons being raised, so 
15 as a response to January 6th. 
16 Q You also mentioned in response to Ms. Cheney's questions that you had 
17 heard about the 25th Amendment or discussions about the 25th Amendment from 
18 Members of the Congress. Which Members did you hear raise this idea of the 25th 
19 Amendment to the White House? 
20 A I believe Mr. Markwayne Mullin reached out to me, Leader McCarthy, 
21 Mr. Mike Johnson. I'm trying to run through my head specifics. I had a lot of 
22 communication with Members --
23 
24 
25 Q 
A How about the Senate side? 
--during this time. 
Mr. Roy Blunt reached out to me about it. Senator Roy Blunt, I'm sorry.  127 
1 believe that was it for the Senate side about the 25th Amendment. If I remember 
2 anybody else, I'll make sure to mention it, but --
3 Ms. Cheney. Can you tell us what they said, Markwayne Mullin? Do you 
4 remember? 
5 Ms. Hutchinson. Nothing overly specific. Just, again, hate to sound blanket and 
6 broad. But we're hearing talk about the 25th Amendment. Want to make sure the 
7 White House knows. Does the President know? What are you guys going to do if it 
8 happens? I don't think it's actually going happen, but what's the mood like in there? 
9 You know, in some ways I took that outreach as Members trying to be helpful. 
10 And in other ways it was more of a conversation starter that leads into a conversation 
11 about, what's the mood like there right now? So the intentions of it, not entirely sure, 
12 but --
13 
14 Ms. Cheney. Mr. Johnson? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Mike Johnson reached out to me about the 25th 
15 Amendment. But he was also quickly afterwards, How are you doing? How are you 
16 holding up? What's your plans for after? So --
17 Ms. Cheney. And Mr. McCarthy? 
18 Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah, we talked about it a couple of days, I don't know the 
19 date, but a few days after January 6th, because we talked on January 6th. And I don't 
20 believe we talked again for the first time until the 8th or the 9th. And I believe that 
21 conversation he mentioned the 25th Amendment. 
22 We didn't have a conversation specific to the 25th Amendment. We touched 
23 base almost every single day. So to go 24, 48 hours, it was normal for us to have a 
24 conversation. It came up, but as did a variety of other topics. So it wasn't just specific 
25 to it.  1 
2 Ms. Cheney. Okay. 
~ What did he say about the 25th Amendment, though, in that 
3 conversation? 128 
4 Ms. Hutchinson. Has Mark heard about the 25th Amendment? Does he think 
5 it's going to happen? What's he doing right now? Is he giving the President good 
6 advice? Is he talking to the President about the 25th Amendment? 
7 So it was more conversational. And I took it as him being interested in what the 
8 status was of the conversations in the West Wing, if there were conversations even being 
9 had. 
10 What about Senator Blunt? 
11 Ms. Hutchinson. Senator Blunt reached out originally. Just said, How are you 
12 holding up? Is everything okay? Asking about myself. And he had said, Have you 
13 guys heard anything about the 25th Amendment? 
14 And I said, We heard rumors, sir. 
15 
16 He said, All right. Just making sure. 
So nothing that was --I personally didn't have any in-depth conversations with 
17 Members about the process or protocol behind invoking the 25th or --no. If they may 
18 have reached out to other people in the White House who did, I think they were limited 
19 in their outreach to me. And I also tried keep the conversations very short. 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 Okay. That's all I had. 
Ms. Cheney. Good. All right. 
Well, thank you very much. 
And do we want to go off the record? 
Yeah. 
[Discussion off the record.]  1 Ms. Cheney. Sorry. I have another question. Reminds me. I'm sorry. 
2 Sorry. I'm sorry, Cassidy. 
3 
4 
5 
6 Ms. Hutchinson. That's okay. 
Ms. Cheney. I'm sorry. 
Ms. Hutchinson. That's okay. 
Ms. Cheney. It reminded me of another question I wanted to ask you. So I 
7 apologize for that. 
8 
9 Ms. Hutchinson. That's okay. 
Ms. Cheney. And it reminded me because of the issue of the stress and the 129 
10 pressure. And so can you just talk a little bit? We have heard from others that they've 
11 been under tremendous pressure. So I just wonder, in terms of outreach to you from 
12 anybody in The Trump Organization, any specifics about that? Has anybody reached out 
13 to you? 
14 Ms. Hutchinson. Honestly, no, not specific to this period. But, in general, 
15 especially ever since I was subpoenaed --I already try to stay very private. Sometimes it 
16 can be a detrimental flaw of mine to isolate myself from other people. But, no, I'm 
17 already a very private person and careful about conversations that I have with other 
18 people, especially about anything and everything in this realm. 
19 Ms. Cheney. Yeah. 
20 Ms. Hutchinson. A few times I had former colleagues just reach out, like, 
21 conversationally of, how are you doing? What's the status of your subpoena? Have 
22 you gone for your deposition yet? And most of those questions come with the work. 
23 And the only ones that haven't are, like, I think my closest, closest either former mentors 
24 or friends. 
25 And I just said, I'm hanging in there. Hopefully all this gets wrap up fairly soon  130 
1 and the country can move on and this can see its sunset. 
2 Ms. Cheney. Okay. Well, thank you. So you haven't had anybody reach out 
3 to you about your testimony? 
4 
5 
6 Ms. Hutchinson. No. 
Ms. Cheney. Okay. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Not that I responded to. I mean, again, there were gossipy 
7 pieces of people just being curious, but nobody --
8 
9 saying. 
10 
11 
12 Ms. Cheney. But no exchanges. And no one has tried to influence what you're 
Ms. Hutchinson. No, no. 
Ms. Cheney. Okay. That's actually all. 
[Whereupon, at 7:17 p.m., the interview was concluded.]  1 
2 
3 Certificate of Deponent/Interviewee 
4 I have read the foregoing __ pages, which contain the correct transcript of the 
5 answers made by me to the questions therein recorded. 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 Witness Name 
Date 131 