Gmail David Shafer David Shafer Email Address 
URGENT --National Trump-Pence campaign asked me to contact you to coordinate 
Dec. 14 voting by Georgia electors 
Ke !!'ifllr.t!P.~9! Thu, Dec 10, 2020 at 11 :44 PM 
To: 1-• 
Cc: "treasurer@gagop.com" <treasurer@gagop .com>, "carolynfishergop@gmail .com" <carolynfishergop@gmall.com> , 
"assistanttreasurer@gagop.com" <assistanttreasurer@gagop .com> 
Mr. Shafer, 
This follows up on my e-mail of earlier today, with an update, and with draft documents that may be of use. 
I spoke this evening with Mayor Guiliani, who is focused on doing everything possible to ensure that that all the Trump­
Pence electors vote on Dec. 14. He is hopeful that the Georgia electors will go along with this strategy. 
As background, I attach my Nov. 18 memo sketching the upside of this strategy, and, my Dec. 9 memo on the practical 
logistics, including the issues raised by state-law provisions regarding the Electoral College. 
Also attached is a draft of the Certificate that might be used on Dec. 14, along with forms to use in filling vacancies , if any 
might arise. I drafted these documents based in part on the Electoral College documents filed by Georgia in 2016 (copy 
here). 
Also attached is a draft memo that could be mailed with the Certificates. 
In terms of logistics, what's key is for the electors to assemble at the appointed time, and each personally sign the six (6) 
duplicate originals, and enclose each of them in an internal envelope , which will be tightly sealed, and labeled outside 
something like: 
"ELECTORAL VOTES OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA 
FOR PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES." 
This is the envelope that will then be opened only by the President of the Senate on January 6. 
Then, the four mailing envelopes would be addressed with the addresses I've listed in the memo. 
Pretty simple! 
Note: the items I've listed on the memo as sent by Registered Mail need to be sent by REGISTERED (not certified) mail, 
which is required by the statute. Certified mail didn't exist in the 1940s when the relevant statute was enacted. The Bush 
team almost messed up on this in 2000! 
Please don't hesitate to contact me, 24/7, at 
Ken If I can be of any help. 
P.S.: I am copying on this e-mail two more electors who are GA GOP officers, as I realize you must be juggling a great 
deal, and might not be able to personally respond within a short timeframe. 
From: Kenneth Chesebro 
Sent: Thursday, December 10, 2020 5:55 PM 
To: David Shafer Email Address 
Cc: treasurer@gagop.com <treasurer@gagop. com> 
Subject: URGENT --National Trump-Pence campaign asked me to contact you to coordinate Dec. 14 voting by Georgia 
electors 
Document ID: 108754.0001 000004  Mr. Shafer, 
I'm one of the lawyers handling the state-court litigation in Wisconsin where, as you may.have heard, we 
plan to have the Trump-Pence electors cast their votes on Monday, Dec. 14. 
Confidentially, so you can understand how we're messaging it, below is a draft press release, which would 
be released only after we file papers in the WI Supreme Court (following an expected loss in the lower 
court), which we expect to do Saturday. 
Several people with the Trump campaign, including Justin Clark and Nick Trainer, supplied your contact info 
and asked me to help coordinate with the other 5 contested States, to help with logistics of the electors. in 
other States hopefully joining in casting their votes on Monday. 
I'd appreciate if you or someone else on your Georgia team could get in touch with me as soon as possible. I 
have two memos explaining the rationale for the electors voting on Monday, and I am preparing drafts of 
the documents that the electors in Georgia could sign to effect their votes, in case that would be helpful as 
a start. 
Call or write anytime, night or day. 
Sincerely, 
Ken Chesebro 
Kenneth Chesebro 
kenchesebro@msn.com 
(Admitted in CA, FL, IL, MA, NJ, NY, and TX) 
https://www.l inkedin.com/in/ken-chesebro 
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
Proposed Jim Troupis Statement on Electors' Meeting 
As the legal proceedings arising from the November 3 presidential election continue to work their way 
through the Wisconsin court system, I have advised the Republican Party of Wisconsin to convene a 
separate Republican electors' meeting and have the Trump-Pence electors cast their votes at the Wisconsin 
State Capitol on December 14. 
Of course, there is precedent for such a meeting. Democrat electors pledged to John F. Kennedy convened 
in Hawaii in 1960, at the same time as Republicans, even though the Governor had certified Richard Nixon 
Document ID: 108754.0001 000005  as the winner. In the end, the State's electoral votes were awarded to President Kennedy, even though he 
did not win the state until 11 days after his electors cast their votes. 
The legitimacy and good sense of two sets of electors meeting on December 14 to cast competing votes for 
President and Vice President, with the conflict to be later sorted out by the courts and Congress , was 
pointed out by prominent Democrat activists Larry Lessig and Van Jones in an essay published last month on 
CNN.com. 
Given that the results in Wisconsin are still in doubt, with legal arguments that have yet to be decided, just 
as the Democrat electors met in Hawaii in 1960 while awaiting a final resolution of that State's vote, so too 
the Republican electors should meet this year on December 14 as we await a final resolution in Wisconsin. 
4 attachments 
~ 2020-11-18 Chesebro memo on real deadline --streamlined dee 1 0.pdf 
81K 
.,, 2020-12-09 Chesebro memo on Dec 14 requirements for electoral votes.pdf 
L.:.I 76K 
&i"" GA --Dec 10 --draft of certificate of Georgia Trump.Pence electors.docx 
~ 19K 
~ GA--Dec 10 draft of cover memo to be enclosed with certificates.docx 
15K 
Document ID: 108754.0001 000006 