VP-R0000107_0001 
(2021-079) 
OFFICE OF THE VICE PRESIDENT 
Information Memorandum 
TO: 
FROM: VICE PRESIDENT PENCE 
GREGORY JACOB, COUNSEL TO THE VICE PRESIDENT 
Gregory.F.Jacob@ovp.eop.gov 
202-881-9069 
SUBJECT: ANALYSIS OF PROFESSOR EASTMAN'S PROPOSALS 
DATE: JANUARY 5, 2021 
Professor Eastman's Proposal 
Professor John Eastman is the Henry Salvatori Professor of Law & Community Service 
at Chapman University Fowler School of Law. Professor Eastman proposes that while 
presiding over the counting of electoral votes at the joint session of Congress on 
January 6, the Vice President could: 
1. Skip opening and reading the electoral certificates for any state for which an 
alternate but uncertified slate of electors has been submitted; 
2. Save the opening and reading of the electoral certificates for all such states 
(presently AZ, GA, NM, NV, and PA) until the end of the joint session; and 
3. At the end of the joint session, direct that the electoral certificates for these states 
will not be counted until each State's legislature certifies which of the competing 
slates of electors for the State is true and correct. 
Professor Eastman does not recommend that the Vice President assert that he has the 
authority unilaterally to decide which of the competing slates of electors should be 
counted. He stated that in his view, the imprimatur of approval by a State legislature is 
important to the legitimacy of counting any slate of electors other than the one initially 
certified by the State's executive. 
Legal Analysis 
Professor Eastman acknowledges that his proposal violates several provisions of 
statutory law. Specifically, the Electoral Count Act of 1887 provides that: 
• Electoral vote certificates must be "opened, presented, and acted upon in the 
alphabetical order of the States, beginning with the letter A." 3 U.S.C. § 15. It 
further provides that "[n]o votes or papers from any other State shall be acted 
upon" until any objections "to the votes or papers from any State shall have been 
Page 1 of 3  VP-R0000107_0002 
(2021-079) 
finally disposed of." Id. Professor Eastman instead proposes that no action be 
taken, and no disposition made, on the competing certificates for the five to 
seven States with multiple electoral vote submissions. 
• After each electoral vote certificate is read, "the President of the Senate shall call 
for objections, if any." 3 U.S.C. § 15. Professor Eastman instead proposes that 
the Vice President not call for objections with respect to certificates for the five to 
seven States with multiple electoral vote submissions. This would have the 
effect of depriving Representatives and Senators of the ability to make objections 
to the counting of electoral vote certificates, and to debate those objections. 
• The Electoral Count Act provides that, whether or not any objections have been 
made, competing slates of electors must be submitted to the Senate and House 
for debate and disposition. 3 U.S.C. § 15. Professor Eastman's proposal would 
instead refer competing slates of electors to State legislatures for disposition. 
• The Electoral Count Act provides that the joint session cannot be dissolved once 
it begins; that any recess can only be until the next morning (Sunday excepted); 
and that only five days of such recesses are allowed. 3 U.S.C. § 16. Professor 
Eastman's proposal, by contrast, contemplate an extended recess of the joint 
session to allow State legislatures to investigate the election and to vote on 
which slate of electors to certify. 
Professor Eastman's proposal is also contradicted by the opinion authored by 
Republican Supreme Court Justice Joseph Bradley as the deciding vote on the 
Electoral Commission of 1877. Justice Bradley found that the Vice President cannot 
decide the validity of electoral votes, and cannot order that investigations into their 
validity be conducted outside of Congress: 
But I think the practice of the Government, as well as the 
true construction of the Constitution, have settled, that the 
powers of the President of the Senate are merely ministerial, 
conferred upon him as a matter of convenience, as being the 
presiding officer of one of the two bodies which are to meet 
for the counting of the votes and determining the election. 
He is not invested with any authority for making any 
investigation outside of the joint meeting of the two Houses. 
He cannot send for persons or papers. He is utterly without 
the means or the power to do anything more than to inspect 
the documents sent to him; and he cannot inspect them until 
he opens them in the presence of the two Houses. It would 
seem to be clear, therefore, that if any examination at all is 
to be gone into, or any judgment is to be exercised in 
relation to the votes received, it must be performed and 
exercised by the two Houses. 
Finally, Professor Eastman's proposal is strongly in tension with the decision handed 
down yesterday by the District Court for the District of Columbia in the Wisconsin Voters 
Alliance litigation. Civil Action No. 20-3791. The essence of Professor Eastman's 
Page 2 of 3  VP-R0000107_0003 
(2021-079) 
proposal is that disputes between competing slates of electors should not be referred 
for decision to the House and the Senate, or determined based on certifications made 
by State executives. Rather, he contends, they must be referred to and decided by 
State legislatures. But whereas the former procedures are provided for by the Electoral 
Count Act, Professor Eastman's proposed course of action has never occurred in the 
history of the United States. In Bush v, Gore, 531 U.S. 98 (2000), the Supreme Court 
allowed Florida's electoral vote dispute to be resolved through certification by the State 
executive. And in Wisconsin Voters Alliance the court held that "[p]laintiffs' theory that 
[the Electoral Count Act is] unconstitutional and that the Court should instead require 
state legislatures themselves to certify every Presidential election lies somewhere 
between a willful misreading of the Constitution and fantasy." Op. 6. 
Had one or more State legislatures in the seven disputed States certified and submitted 
a competing slate of electors, a strong argument could be made that such a submission 
would qualify as a certification by a "State authority" sufficient to trigger the Electoral 
Count Act's provisions for deciding multiple slate disputes. 3 U.S.C. § 15. A 
reasonable argument might further be made that when resolving a dispute between 
competing electoral slates, Article II, Section 1 of the Constitution places a firm thumb 
on the scale on the side of the State legislature. U.S. CONST, Art.II,§ 1 ("Each State 
shall appoint, in such Manner as the Legislature thereof may direct, a Number of 
Electors ... "). Here, however, no State legislature has appointed or certified any 
alternate slate of electors, and Professor Eastman acknowledges that most Republican 
legislative majorities in the States have signaled they have no intention of doing so. 
Professor Eastman acknowledges that if under present circumstances the Vice 
President attempted to act in accordance with his proposal, the Vice President would 
immediately be sued for violating numerous provisions of statutory law. That lawsuit 
would be filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, which just issued the 
Wisconsin Voters Alliance decision rejecting similar arguments that the Electoral Count 
Act is unconstitutional and that electoral slates must be certified by State legislatures. 
In light of the unfavorable composition of the D.C. Circuit, it should be assumed the 
same position would prevail in any appeal. 
Professor Eastman makes a colorable argument that the political question doctrine 
might be applied to bar the courts from deciding any lawsuit concerning the counting of 
electoral votes. That is unlikely to be the outcome in the D.C. Circuit with its present 
composition, however, and even if it were, it is unclear that any favorable political 
solution could follow. Professor Eastman acknowledges that majorities in both the 
House and Senate would oppose his proposed novel procedure, which would deprive 
them of their present statutory right to object to and debate electoral votes. He further 
acknowledges that at as of today, no Republican-controlled legislative majority in any 
disputed States has expressed an intention to designate an alternate slate of electors. 
Conclusion 
If the Vice President implemented Professor Eastman's proposal, he would likely lose in 
court. In a best-case scenario in which the courts refused to get involved, the Vice 
President would likely find himself in an isolated standoff against both houses of 
Congress, as well as most or all of the applicable State legislatures, with no neutral 
arbiter available to break the impasse. 
Page 3 of 3 