A TfORNEY-CLIENT PRIVILEGED 
To: Jay Sekulow 
Prepared by: Jenna Ellis 
Date: January 5, 2020 
Re: Vice President Authority iii Cou11ti11g Electors pursua11t to U.S. Co11stitution and 3 U.S. 
Code §§5 and 15 
3 U.S. Code § 5 requires a "final determination" in accordance with state law. Where a 
controversy has been initiated in accordance with State law, that process for a final determination 
must be completed before a legitimate set of electors can be "ascertained" by the chief executive 
officers of the state. (In at least six states, state executives rushed to certify while judicial and 
legislative disputes in accordance with state law had just begun-how can that be constitutional 
and entitled to deference EVEN IF federal law purports to allow it?) 
3 U.S. Code§ 15 purports to establish a constitutional process for adjudicating disputes 
when there is disagreement regarding the legitimacy of more than one set of electors. The 
problem with Section 15's process is that it violates Article II § 1.2, which requires that electors 
be selected in the "manner" directed by state legislatures. Section 15, by defaulting to electors 
certified by the state executive, violates the supremacy -of the state legislature as the 
constitutional authority for determining the selection of valid legislators. See, McPherson v. 
Blacker, 146 U.S. 1 (1982); Bushv. Gore, 531 U.S. 98 (2000). 
Where a determination or ascertainment process has not been completed in accordance 
with state law, no elector can be deemed as·legitimate/valid/constitutionally determined because 
the constitution requires that electors be chosen as directed by the state legislature and the state 
law as enacted by the general assembly. Where State law provides a process to resolve 
challenges and controversies (including in the judiciary), these processes and procedures have to 
be completed. 
Congress may not arrogate to itself the authority to impose its preferred set of electors 
when state law has not been followed. This is what§ 15 does. While it may be a sensible 
approach under less contentious circumstances ( or perhaps the 1948 Congress did not 
contemplate a faithless executive), the magnitude of the problem, where at least six states are in 
significant dispute and a handful of electors counted one way or the other would be outcome 
determinative,§ 15 cannot be regarded as constitutional to override Article II,§ 1.2. 
As a practical matter, there is no provision for communication between the Congress and 
state legislatures, other than the transmission of purported slates of electors. If the Vice President 
determines that§ 5 has not been completed as to ascertain electors, the Vice President should 
determine that no electors can be counted from the state. This directly conflicts with the 
counting procedure laid out in § 15. If the Vice President takes this step there is no clear 
remedy, other than perhaps injunctive relief by some petitioner seeking a "writ of mandamus"  from the court to the Vice President to exercise his job. Section 15 states the Vice President 
shall open and hand the votes to the Tellers. Under his Oat~ of Off~ce and a p!a~ r~ding of_the 
constitutional provisions, the Vice President has the authonty (not Just as a rrnrustenal function) 
to not band the votes to the teller where no electors have been "ascertained" under§ 5. This 
would have to point back to the state law and where there are act~ active disputes that are 
running in accordance with provisions of state law in order to Jegitunately assert that § 5 has not 
been completed. 
If the Vice President exercises in this manner would§ 15 be "ignored"? such that there 
would be no "debate" among the separate houses as to "objections"? Probably yes. As outlined 
above, there is a colorable argument that § 15 violates the supremacy clause of the Constitution 
regarding plenary state legislative authority under Article II, § 1.2. 
What happens nex1? Does the Vice President have the authority to simply adjourn the 
body until a determination that the process to have been completed? Probably yes. Discretion of 
the President of the Senate and that he would be the Vice President is intentional. As John 
Hoestettler argues in Ordained and Established, the Vice President is a legislative officer -not 
an officer of the executive branch. The founders intended the Vice President to be the second 
most powerful elected member of the federal government as president of the senate. Tradition 
and practice afterthe 12th Amendment have blurred the constitutional distinction but as 
President of the Senate, the Vice President is a legislative officer--even ifhe chooses to ignore 
that role. Therefore the Vice President, as a presiding officer has great constitutional discretion 
to recognize speakers and to make fundamental determinations -probably not discretion in 
selecting which electors to count-but for 3 U.S. Code§§ 5 and 15, that would clearly be·the 
case. As suggested, 3 USC § 15 may very well be unconstitutional. 
Therefore, the Vice President should begin alphabetically in order of the states, and 
coming first to Arizona, not open the purported certification, but simply stop the count at that 
juncture, invoking authority of 3 U.S. Code§ 5 and require the final determination of 
ascertainment of electors to be completed before continuing. The states would therefore have to 
act. 