 
 
 
 1 
 MEMORANDUM  
To:  Members of the Select Committee  
Fr: Select Committee Data Analysts  
Re: Legacy Media   
Dt: December 3, 2022  
 
 
Introduction  
 
Cable and broadcast news dominate American news sources. According to a YouGov 
poll1 broadcast news and cable news are used weekly by 39% of Americans. More Americans 
are likely to have watched broadcast news or cable news (or interacted with one of these 
channel’s websites) each week than any other news source including social media, new spapers or 
their websites, YouTube, podcasts, or other websites.  
National news sources focused heavily on the 2020 election in the months surrounding it. 
With national news touching so many Americans and having such potential to impact on 
Americans’ beliefs and actions, understanding what the national news reported (or didn’t report) 
and how it was communicated is impactful for understanding the cultural context that allowed 
the January 6th riots to happen.  
 
Analysis  
Select Committee data analysts modeled the news between 2020 -11-09, the Monday after 
the election, through 2021 -01-05, the day before the January 6th riot. The staff gathered 
transcripts of primetime news programs from three of the major cable news network s: CNN, 
MSNBC, and Fox News. This only included weeknight programs aired from 6 pm to 10:59 pm 
ET. Using these transcripts, the staff built a topic model that identified 50 topics .2 This approach 
used the statistical results of the model to identify broad  trends over time and between networks , 
then identified top hits by network for each topic and provide d a detailed analysis on how 
networks differ in their presentation of the news .  
 
1 Linley Sanders, "Trust in Media 2022: Where Americans get their news and who they trust for information," 
YouGov America, (Apr. 5, 2022), available at https://today.yougov.com/topics/politics/articles -
reports/2022/04/05/trust -media -2022 -where -americans -get-news -poll.  
2 Lin Liu, Lin Tang, Wen Dong, Shaowen Yao, and Wei Zhou, "An overview of topic modeling and its current 
applications in bioinformatics," SpringerPlus, Vol. 5.1, (2016), available at 
https://springerplus.springeropen.com/articles/10.1186/s400 64-016-3252 -8.   
 
 
 2 
  
Findings  
Overall, findings include:  
• The election and Covid made up rou ghly 50% of each network’s nightly programming in 
this time window,  
• Networks cover the news differently and in statistically different proportions per topic,  
• Fox News repeatedly hinted or outright claimed that Biden’s election win was 
illegitimate via vote r fraud or improper ballot counting. Discussions of voting methods 
directly made up ~50% of Fox News’s election related programming and 10% of their 
total programming. Fox News continued to suggest there was concern to believe the 
election was illegitimate , even when the primary topic was not voter fraud or improper 
voting,  
• CNN and MSNBC focused their election coverage on Trump’s response to the results, 
discussing when and if Trump would concede and continually stating that Trump’s 
claims the election was stolen were baseless. This made up ~40% of these network’s 
election coverage and 9 -10% of their total programming, and  
• Fox News spent 15% of its nightly programming addressing Hunter Biden in the weeks 
following Hunter Biden’s announcement that his tax aff airs were under investigation. Fox 
News repeatedly hinted that Joe Biden was complicit in Hunter Biden’s potential crimes. 
In contrast, this was a short news story for CNN and MSNBC only on the day it broke. 
CNN and MSNBC were explicit that Joe Biden was n ot implicated in any of Hunter 
Biden’s investigations.  
 
Conclusion  
This data provided no evidence that the right -wing or left -wing partisan media covered in 
this report directly incited the January 6th riot. However, Fox News’s repeated claims of voter 
fraud, illegal vote counting, and general election conspiracy likely contributed to a political 
environment that allowed conspiracy, hysteria, and extremism to thrive. As the most watched 
cable news network in America in 2020 with roughly 20 times more hourly  viewers than 
Newsmax, Fox News’ potential cultural impact is significant.  
 
 
 