076P-R000008735_0001 
January 5, 2020 
Vice President Michael R. Pence 
Office of the Vice President 
The White House 
1600 Pennsylvania Avenue 
Washington, D.C. 20500 
Dear Vice President Pence: 
The 2020 election witnessed an unprecedented and admitted defiance of state law and procedural 
irregularities raising questions about the validity of hundreds of thousands of ballots in our respective 
states. 
The attached appendix summarizes the illegalities present in the 2020 election and provides evidence of 
a coordinated and structured multi-state effort to undermine state !aw protecting election integrity. 
State legislative bodies have the constitutional authority and responsibility to determine the time, place 
and manner of elections and the selection of presidential electors. Yet, to date, we have been unable to 
fulfill those responsibllities in the 2020 Presidential election. 
The refusal by state executive branch and local officials to comply with reasonable legislative 
investigation requests, as well as their obfuscation and intentional deception have prevented proper 
investigation. Moreover, in some instances, state executives have acted to prevent legislatures from 
meeting as a body and in Michigan, threatened legislators with criminal investigation for meeting to 
fulfill their constitutional responsibilities. 
We intend on fulfilling our oaths of office by properly investigating and determining whether the 
election should be certified, or decertified, by our respective state legislatures. Additional time must be 
afforded for the legislatures to meet and for state legislators to fulfill their constitutional duties. 
On January 6, 2021, you are statutorily authorized and required under the Electoral Count Act of 1887 to 
preside over both houses of Congress to count and record the Presidential electoral vote count to elect 
the President and Vice President of the United States. This congressionally set deadline, however, is not 
the supreme law of the land, and in fact must not supersede our state legislative authority under the 
Constitution. Moreover, the deadline is not necessitated by circumstances, especially when it truncates 
the fulfillment of our constitutional duties and our responsibility to the American people. 
There are extensive and well-founded accusations of electoral administration mismanagement and 
deliberate and admitted violations of explicit election laws enacted by state legislatures in Arizona, 
Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin. 
Therefore, we write to ask you to comply with our reasonable request to afford our nation more time to 
properly review the 2020 election by postponing the January 6th opening and counting of the electoral 
votes for at least 10 days, affording our respective bodies to meet, investigate, and as a body vote on  076P-R000008735_0002 
certification or decertification of the election. This action can be completed prior to the inauguration 
date, as required by the Constitution. 
American elections must be transparent, inclusive and produce results in which the American people 
have faith. The 2020 election, thus far, has failed in this respect. Your actions consistent with this 
request can repair this falling. 
Sincerely, 
Alexander, Julie Ml Rep. Cox, Jim PA Rep. 
Argall, Dave PA Senator Davanzo, Eric PA Rep. 
Barr, Timothy GA Rep. Diamond, Russ PA Rep. 
Barto, Nancy AZ Rep. Dunahoo, Emory GA Rep. 
Barton, Brenda AZ Rep. Dush, Cris PA Senator 
Beach, Brandon GA Senator Eisen, Gary Ml Rep. 
Bernstine, Aaron PA Rep. Fillmore, John AZ Rep. 
Bolick, Shawnna AZ Rep. Finchem, Mark AZ Rep. 
Borowicz, Stephanie PA Rep. Gilligan, Sheri GA Rep. 
Borrelli, Sonny AZ Senator Gliem, Barbra PA Rep. 
Borton, Ken Ml Rep. Gowan, Davld AZ Senator 
Brandtjen, Janel WI Rep. Grantham, Travis AZ Rep. 
Brooks, Robert PA Rep. Griffin, Beth Ml Rep. 
Brooks, Robert WI Rep. Griffin, Gail AZ Rep. 
Carra, Steve Ml Rep. Gundrum, Rick WI Rep. 
Clark, David GA Rep. Gurtler, Matt GA Rep. 
Cook,Bud PA Rep. Horlacher, Cody WI Rep. 
Jones, Burt GA Senator Jacque, Andre WI Senator 
Jones, Jeff GA Rep. Jones, Burt GA Senator 
Jones, Mike PA Rep. Jones, Jeff GA Rep. 
Kasier, Steve AZ Rep, Jones, Mike PA Rep. 
Kauffman, Rob PA Rep. Kasier, Steve AZ Rep.  076P-R000008735_0003 
Keefer, Dawn PA Rep. Rendon, Daire Ml Rep. 
Kern, Anthony AZ Rep. Rigby, Jim PA Rep. 
Knodl, Dan WI Rep. Roae, Brad PA Rep. 
Langerho!c Jr, Wayne PA Senator Rowe, David PA Rep. 
Ligon, William GA Senator Ryan, Francis PA Rep. 
Maddock, Matt Ml Rep. Sanfelippo, Joe WI Rep. 
Magnafici, Gae WI Rep. Schraa, Michael WI Rep. 
Maloney, David PA Rep. Silvis, Jason PA Rep. 
Mastriano, Doug PA Senator Singleton, Philip GA Rep. 
Meerman, Luke Ml Rep. Smith, Brian PA Rep. 
Metcalfe, Daryl PA Rep. Sortwel!, Shae WI Rep. 
Montenegro, Steve AZ Senator Thiesfeldt, Jeremy WI Rep. 
Moul, Dan PA Rep. Thompson, Bruce GA Senator 
Murphy, Dave WI Rep. Townsend, Kelly AZ Rep. 
Mursau, Jeff WI Rep. Ward, Judy PA Senator 
Nelson, Eric PA Rep. Ward, Kim PA Senator 
Payne, Kevin AZ Rep. Whiteford, Mary Ml Rep. 
Petersen, Warren AZ Senator Wichgers, Chuck Wt Rep. 
Phillips-Hill, Kristin PA Senator Wilmeth, Justin AZ Rep. 
Pittman, Joe PA Senator Wozniak, Doug Ml Rep. 
Pullin, Ken GA Rep. 
Zimmerman, David PA Rep. 
Puskaric, Michael PA Rep. 
Ramthun, Timothy WI Rep. 
Rapp, Kathy PA Rep. 
Regan, Mike PA Senator 
Reilly, John Ml Rep.  076P-R000008735_0004 