.. FW: Statement on electors mtg / Draft 
Mark Jefferson 
To: Anna Kelly 
I 2 attachments ( 48 KB) 
WI --Dec 10 draft of cover memo enclosed with certificates.docx; Electors statement.docx; 
You can work off this. This is a statement we were going to put out but didn't. Pat Marley did a story on 
it Dec 14 as well that you can look at. 
From: Brian Schim · 
Sent: Thursday, D 
To: Mark Jefferson 
Subject: Fw: State 
Slight revision from Cheseboro ; Jim was fine on phrasing. 
Jim made one thing clear -his statement should NOT go out before we have filed to appeal to Supreme 
Court -after we finish tomorrow 's hearing, presuming reserve judge rules against us. 
B 
Sent from Yahoo Mail for iPhone 
Begin forwarded message ; 
On Thursday, December 10, 2020, 3:59 PM, Kenneth Chesebro 
I've done a cover memo that would be enclose with the certificates, in internal envelopes 
that would be sealed and labeled prominently on the front: 
''VOTES OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN 
FOR PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT 
OF THE UNITED STATES." 
Then, the external envelopes would be address with the addresses I've listed in the memo. 
Pretty simple! 
Note: the items I've listed as sent by Registered Mail need to be sent by REGISTERED (not 
certified) mail. The Bush team almost screwed up on this in 2000! 
Ken 
From: Kenneth Chesebro 
Sent: Thursday, December 
To: Brian Schimming rote: 
Hitt000011 
- Cc: Judge Troupis 
Subject: Re: Statement on electors mtg/ Draft 
This is nicely phrased! 
Excellent idea to link to the Jones & Lessig essay, showing that quite recently the 
Democrats endorsed parallel electors' meetings as a reasonable thing to do (not just 
Kennedy in 1960). 
I have fixed the link to CNN, and tweaked the language a bit. 
Proposed Jim Troupls Statement on Electors Meeting 
"As the legal proceedings arising from the November 3 presidential election continue to 
work their way through the Wisconsin court system, I have advised the Republican Party of 
Wisconsin to convene a separate Republican electors' meeting and have the Trump-Pence 
electors cast their votes at the Wisconsin State Capitol on December 14. 
Of course, there is precedent for such a meeting. Democrat electors pledged to John F. 
Kennedy convened in Hawaii in 1960, at the same time as Republicans, even though the 
Governor had certified Richard Nixon as the winner. In the end, the state's electoral votes 
were ultimately awarded to President Kennedy, even though he did not win the state until 
11 days after his electors cast their votes. 
The legitimacy and good sense of two sets of electors meeting on December 14 to cast 
competing votes for President and Vice President , with the conflict to be later sorted out by 
the courts and Congress, was pointed out by prominent Democrat activists Larry Lessig 
and Van Jones in an essay published last month on CNN.com. 
Given that the results in Wisconsin are still in doubt, with legal arguments that have yet to 
be decided, just as the Democrat electors met in Hawaii in 1960 while awaiting a final 
resolution of that State's vote, so too the Republican electors should meet this year on 
December 14 as we await a final resolution in Wisconsin ." 
From: Brian Schimming 
Sent: Thursday , December 10, 2020 3:47 PM 
To: Kenneth Chesebro 
Subject: Statement on electors mtg I Draft 
Ken -Brian Schimming here. State party wants Jim to put this statement out before the 
electors meeting here on Monday. Jim wanted you to get a look: said whatever went out 
would have to wait until after we filed appeal to WIS Supreme Court 
Let me know, thanks 
Hitt000012  B 
Proposed Jim Troupis Statement on Electors Meeting 
"As the legal proceedings continue to work their way through the Wisconsin court system, I 
have advised the Republican Party of Wisconsin to convene a separate Republican 
electors meeting and vote at the Wisconsin State Capitol on December 14. 
Of course, there is precedent for such a meeting. Democrats convened in Hawaii in 1960, 
at the same time as Republicans, even though the Governor had certified Richard Nixon as 
the winner. In the end, the state's electoral votes were ultimately awarded to President 
Kennedy. In fact, just last month, when Republicans appeared to have a lead in 
Pennsylvania, Larry Lessig and Van Jones published an essay on CNN.com calling on 
Democrats to possibly convene their electors in that state if the results were still in doubt. 
Given this, and the legal arguments that have yet to be decided, the GOP electors should 
also meet on Monday while we await a final resolution in Wisconsin." 
Sent from Yahoo Mail for iPhone 
Hitt000013 