From: Eastman, John 
Sent: Saturday, December 05, 2020 1 :52 PM MST 
To: Bruce Colbert <bcolbert@poarc.com> 
Subject: RE: How are you feeling? 
Bruce: 
I have spoken directly with folks at the top of the chain of command on this. They are now aware of the issues. We'll work 
on the draft next week; can't explain why the delay for now, but it will become clear on Monday. 
John 
From: Bruce Colbert <bcolbert@poarc.com> 
Sent: Saturday, December 5, 2020 1 :29 PM 
To: Eastman, John <jeastman@chapman.edu> 
Subject: Re: How are you feeling? 
I read through the latest draft as well. I look forward to talking with you. How is your review and input progressing? 
Bruce 
On Dec 3, 2020, at 8:07 AM, Eastman, John <jeastman@chapman.edu > wrote: 
Finished the Foley article; interesting. Then got about 2/3 of the way through your latest draft when I got a call to 
testify before the Georgia Legislature today. So I had to shift gears. Will call tomorrow or some time over the 
weekend. 
Topics to discuss: We have to think through what exactly our goal is, and not make claims that run contrary to 
it. i.e., if our goal is to confirm that the 1ih Amendment confers dispositive authority on the President of the 
Senate to decide which slate to count, our position with the Court should be that it is a non-justiciable political 
question-and we would raise that in opposition to Dem litigation, not in litigation of our own. 
John 
From: Bruce Colbert <bcolbert@poarc.com > 
Sent: Wednesday, December 2, 2020 2:52 PM 
To: Eastman, John <jeastman@chapman.edu > 
Subject: Re: How are you feeling? 
Let's set up a time. When do you plan to call? 
On Dec 1, 2020, at 2:51 PM, Eastman, John <jeastman@chapman.edu > wrote: 
I'm in class (via zoom). Will try to connect with you tomorrow. 
John 
From: Bruce Colbert <bcolbert@poarc.com > 
Sent: Tuesday, December 1, 2020 12:54 PM 
To: Eastman, John <jeastman@chapman.edu > 
Subject: How are you feeling? 
Dr. Eastman, 
How are you feeling? Are you still bedridden? 
President Trump said standing issues are preventing the Trump legal team's lawsuits from going forward in 
Pennsylvania. He said he's told that he himself does not have standing. His greatest case ever, may not 
reach the U.S. Supreme Court. Maria Bartiromo asked President Trump, "Is there a path to victory" His 
answer was, "I hope so." President Trump does not sound at all certain or confident. It sounds like 
they urqentlv need your help. How are you involved in this? 
Also, could we finish our letter this week, so that it's timely for the other members of President Trump's legal 
team? 
It sounds like the election challenges are falling apart at the state level. If you are working on this, then this 
certainly needs your immediate attention. 
Noting that the above work takes priority, there are significant gaps in the 79 Days Report that leave 
Chapman023534  President Trump's legal team unprepared. This work addresses those gaps. I understand the urgency of 
what you are working on. Yet, our letter is absolutely crucial to ensure the President's victory. Since the 
legal team is struggling in the battle at the state level, it shows that they will be unprepared for the battle in 
Congress. I hope that you can find a way to work on the attached letter in parallel with your other work. 
I am concerned that if we delay our work to the point that it would not be timely for the recipients, and 
therefore would be useless, that would make both of us look foolish. I believe that if we do not provide our 
letter to President Trump so that he may transmit it to the rest of the legal team by December 7, given the 
holidays and the January 6 deadline, the letter would arrive too late to be timely or useful. That would be 
unconscionable and must not be allowed to happen. 
All of this is urgent Recognizing the tumultuousness of all that is happening, when would you be able to 
work on this letter? 
Bruce 
On Nov 10, 2020, at 6:12 AM, Eastman, John <jeastman@chapman.edu > wrote: 
Bruce, 
I've read it quickly. Haven't had a chance to go back to our report. I'm working 'round the 
clock, as is everyone else, on the current tabulations and litigation. This has a bit of 
breathing room. If you can't wait until I can devote the time necessary, then just move on 
without me. 
From: Bruce Colbert <bcolbert@poarc.com > 
Sent: Tuesday, November 10, 2020 7:00 AM 
To: Eastman, John <jeastman@chapman.edu > 
Subject: Re: Moving Forward 
It would help me to know that you have fully read my email below, so that I know that you are 
aware of the issues that you will need to address. Then, I will wait for you to address them. 
Have you fully read my email below? 
Bruce 
On Nov 9, 2020, at 6:36 AM, Eastman, John <jeastman@chapman.edu > wrote: 
I know. And I'm part of the legal team. Only so many hours in a day. I will 
turn back to our project just as soon as I am able. 
From: Bruce Colbert <bcolbert@poarc.com > 
Sent: Monday, November 9, 2020 7:04 AM 
To: Eastman, John <jeastman@chapman.edu > 
Subject: Moving Forward 
P. S. Sidney Powell said that the Trump legal team is seeking relief in multiple states to 
enjoin the certification of election results. This legal fight is headed to the subject of our 
work below. I believe that for President Trump's legal team to have time to prepare, it is 
time for us to act. 
Dr. Eastman, 
Thank you for sending me a copy of the 79 Days to Inauguration Taskforce Report. This is 
the first time that you mentioned it. I reviewed the Report, and would like to discuss it. 
The Report simulates post-election outcomes very well, up until the final two weeks. Several 
published post-election outcomes for the final two weeks were not addressed. Also, the 
Report raises uncertainties without providing the recommendations that would allow 
President Trump's legal team to better prepare for these uncertainties. The intent ofmy 
letter is to address these outcomes and provide these legal recommendations. 
• Edward B. Foley, professor oflaw at The Ohio State University, is a legal consultant 
for the Transition Integrity Project (TIP). TIP was referenced by the Report. Foley's 
related legal article "Preparing for a Disputed Presidential Election: An Exercise in 
Election Risk Assessment and Management," should have been addressed by the 
Report, but was overlooked. Likewise, the Transition Integrity Project's Game One 
and Game Three legal outcomes were overlooked. In addition, the Report states, 
"There are two areas of uncertainty at the late stage of a contested election," but fails 
to provide recommendations for the President to resolve these uncertainties. My letter 
addresses the legal outcomes of Foley's article, the Transition Integrity Project's 
Chapman023535  Game One and Game Three legal outcomes, and the missing recommendations for the 
two areas of uncertainty. 
• The Report states, "The Claremont-TPPF effort produced a detailed roadmap .. .in the 
unlikely event that the Electoral College cannot determine a winner, how a President 
and Vice President could be constitutionally determined." The Report neglects to 
include this detailed roadmap. The Report also lacks an appendix oflegal citations 
for the January 6 to January 20 timeframe, equivalent to Appendix A's December 14 
to present timeframe. My letter provides the detailed roadmap. 
• If Democrats don't win in the canvass, they have indicated that they plan to win in the 
joint session of Congress, by challenges and disruption in the count of electoral votes. 
The "uncertainty" raised by the Report will not be uncertain, once Democrats are 
through in the final two weeks. My letter will help avert a deer in the headlights 
moment for Republicans. As the Report recommends: "Legal arguments need to be 
anticipated and prepared now." 
In order to be useful and practical for the President, the letter provides solutions 
and recommendations to the problems, outcomes, and uncertainties that have been raised. 
The letter provides comprehensive recommendations. It is good to be prepared for all 
eventualities. 
Rosa Brooks, a law professor at Georgetown University who co-founded and helped 
convene the Transition Integrity Project, said, "One big takeaway is that leaders really need 
to know what exactly their powers are, and what the powers of others are, and think through 
some of these options in advance. Because if things go bad, they'll go bad very quickly, and 
people will have to make decisions in an hour, not in a week." We can do no less than this 
for President Trump, to secure his election victory. 
I attached my revised comments in red below. 
The Congressional Research Service provides helpful articles on seating Senate 
Members and House Members . 
Please feel free to call me if you would like additional information or if there is something 
that you would like to clarify. I look forward to hearing from you and to seeing this through 
to fruition. 
Bruce 
On Oct 24, 2020, at 2: 13 PM, Eastman, John 
<jeastman@chapman.edu > wrote: 
Bruce, 
As I think I mentioned a while back, I have also been involved in a 
major war game simulation raising many of these issues. I have it 
on pretty good authority that the report of that effort is already 
before the President and his team. 
See https://www.claremont.org/79daysreport.pdf . 
I am already up to my eyeballs in various litigations, including an 
opening brief in a major appeal due next Wednesday. I'll try to look 
at your further revisions thereafter just as soon as I can. 
John 
From: Bruce Colbert <bcolbert@poarc.com > 
Sent: Saturday, October 24, 2020 3:04 PM 
To: Eastman, John <jeastman@chapman.edu > 
Subject: What are your thoughts on Ed Foley's comments? 
P.S. P.S. Even if President Trump wins in a landslide, Democrats can 
still win through shenanigans in the count of electoral votes in the joint 
session of Congress. "I consider it completely unimportant who in the 
party will vote, or how; but what is extraordinarily important is this -who 
will count the votes, and how," said Joseph Stalin (Boris Bazhanov, 
"Memoirs of Stalin's Former Secretary"). I would rather see President 
Trump prepared for an eventuality that does not occur, than to see 
President Trump unprepared for an eventuality that does occur. Ideally, 
I hope that our work will prepare President Trump for an eventuality that 
does in fact occur. 
P.S. Given the dearth of conservative/Republican articles discussing the 
Democrats' planned disruption of the joint session of Congress on 
Chapman023536  January 6 to 20, I believe that our letter will be exceptionally useful for 
President Trump. If Democrats don't win at the ballot box, they plan to 
win at the joint session of Congress by challenges and disruption. 
President Trump needs to be prepared for this. President Trump's 
Administration is filled with Never Trumpers, so he may not otherwise 
receive the recommendations we provide. 
I attached my revised comments in blue below. 
What are your thoughts on Ed Foley's comments below? 
Dr. Eastman, 
I appreciate your taking time on this. Crazy times -you made good 
points about a super-legislature, Trump's Supreme Court nominations, 
and court packing on The Ingraham Angle. 
The idea for injunctions arises, as it seems the only means possible 
to resolved disputed constitutional and statutory issues raised by Never 
Trumper Edward B. Foley in his article "Preparing for a Disputed Presidential 
Election: An Exercise in Election Risk Assessment and Management ." These 
issues appear unsettled, and open to legal challenges. The purpose of this letter 
is to establish a clear, undisputed, constitutional path to navigate these legal 
challenges in the decisive final two weeks and to achieve victory for the 
President. 
Thank you for your scholarly insights on this. 
Bruce 
On Oct 16, 2020, at 11 :43 AM, Eastman, John 
<jeastman@chapman.edu > wrote: 
Crazy times. Sorry to be slow. 
You've taken this a different direction that was set out in 
our early discussions, and I cannot go along with it as it 
currently stands. Mainly, you have placed much too 
much stock in getting injunctions from the Supreme 
Court, with requests that are not supported by statutory 
or constitutional text or on matters for which the 
Constitution gives the last word elsewhere. 
My specific concerns are outlined in the attached. 
John 
From: Bruce Colbert <bcolbert@poarc.com > 
Sent: Friday, October 16, 2020 12:25 PM 
To: Eastman, John <jeastman@chapman.edu > 
Subject: How does your schedule look now? 
External Message 
Dr. Eastman, 
Just keeping abreast, not pressing. How does your schedule look 
now for having time to review and edit our email? 
Bruce 
Bruce Colbert, AICP I Executive Director 
Property Owners Association of Riverside County 
6407 Reflection Drive #205 I San Diego, CA 92124 
949-689-4480 I bcolbert@poarc.com 
www.poarc.com 
I NOTE: This email originated from outside Chapman's network. I 
Chapman023537  Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the 
sender and know content is safe. 
Bruce Colbert, AICP I Executive Director 
Property Owners Association of Riverside County 
6407 Reflection Drive #205 I San Diego, CA 92124 
949-689-4480 I bcolbert@poarc.com 
www.poarc.com 
Bruce Colbert, AICP I Executive Director 
Property Owners Association of Riverside County 
6407 Reflection Drive #205 I San Diego, CA 92124 
949-689-4480 I bcolbert@poarc.com 
www.poarc.com 
Chapman023538 