PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL 
January 6 scenario 
Article II, § 1, cl. 2 of the U.S. Constitution assigns to the legislatures of the states the 
plenary power to determine the manner for choosing presidential electors. Modernly, that 
is done via statutes that establish the procedures pursuant to which an election must be 
conducted. 
I. Illegal conduct by election officials. 
Quite apart from outright fraud (both traditional ballot stuffing, and electronic 
manipulation of voting tabulation machines), important state election laws were altered 
or dispensed with altogether in key swing states and/or cities and counties. When the 
laws at issue were specifically designed to reduce the risk of fraud in absentee voting, 
those violations are particularly troubling. A sampling of the more significant violations 
is as follows: 
a. Georgia (as alleged in Trump v. Kemp et al. (N.D. Ga., filed Dec. 31) 
1. SOS altered signature verification requirements via an unauthorized 
settlement agreement. 
11. Portable "polling places" targeted to heavily democrat ares 
m. Refusal by the state judiciary to even assign a judge to hear the 
statutorily-authorized election challenge brought by the Trump 
campaign on Dec. 4. 
b. Pennsylvania (as noted in Trump v. Boockvar et al. (S.Ct., filed Dec. 21) 
1. Following a collusive suit brought by the League of Women Voters 
against the Democrat Secretary of the Commonwealth seeking to 
require that absentee ballots not passing the signature verification 
process be given notice and an opportunity to cure, the Secretary 
unilaterally abolished the signature verification process altogether, 
issuing a directive that not only was it not required, it was not even 
permitted. She then filed an emergency writ action with the partisan­
elected Supreme Court to ratify her elimination of that statutory 
requirement 
11. The PA Supreme Court agreed with the Secretary, but went further, 
also eliminating the statutory right of candidates to challenge illegal 
ballots during the absentee ballot canvassing. 
m. The PA Supreme Court next eviscerated the statutory requirement 
that candidates be allowed to have election observers, holding that 1 
individual "in the room"-even if at the entrance of the football field­
sized Philadelphia Convention Center-was sufficient. 
1v. The PA Supreme Court then eviscerated the remaining validation 
requirements in state law, holding that the statutory requirement 
that a voter "fill in, sign, and date" the absentee ballot certificate was  unenforceable because "fill in" was ambiguous, and because the date 
requirement served no purpose, in its view. 
c. Wisconsin (as noted in two cert petitions, Trump v. Eiden, filed on Dec. 29, 
and Trump v. Wisc. Elections Comm 'n, filed on Dec. 30) 
1. The use of unmanned drop boxes, not authorized in Wisconsin law 
11. The use of so-called "human drop boxes", also not authorized in 
Wisconsin law, and utilized in "Democracy in the Park" efforts 
coordinated by Dane County (Madison) election officials and the Biden 
campaign. 
m. Allowed election officials to add missing information to absentee voter 
or witness declarations, contrary to law, which says such ballots must 
not be counted. 
1v. Dane and Milwaukee County clerks recommended that voters 
fraudulently claim to be "indefinitely confined" in order to avoid voter 
id requirements. 
d. Michigan 
1. Mailed out absentee ballots to every registered voter, contrary to 
statutory requirement that voter apply for absentee ballots 
11. Established remote drop boxes only in heavily Democrat precincts, 
without the statutorily mandated video surveillance. 
m. Absentee ballots delivered at 3 am were counted without affording 
candidates the opportunity to observe, contrary to state law 
e. Arizona 
1. Federal court reduced Arizona's 29-day-before-election registration 
requirement 
f. Nevada 
1. Machine inspection of signatures, rather than the uman inspection of 
signatures mandated by state law, was allowed. 
Because of these illegal actions by state and local election officials (and, in some cases, 
judicial officials, the Trump electors in the above 6 states (plus in New Mexico) met on 
December 14, cast their electoral votes, and transmitted those votes to the President of the 
Senate (Vice President Pence). There are thus dual slates of electors from 7 states. 
IL The Constitutional and Statutory Process for Opening and Counting of 
Electoral Votes. 
a. The 12th Amendment provides that "the President of the Senate shall, in 
the presence of the Senate and House of Representatives, open all the 
certificates and the votes shall then be counted."  1. There is very solid legal authority, and historical precedent, for the 
view that the President of the Senate does the counting, including the 
resolution of disputed electoral votes (as Adams and Jefferson did 
while Vice President, regarding their own election as President), and 
all the Members of Congress can do is watch. 
b. The Electoral Count Act of 1887, which is likely unconstitutional, provides: 
If more than one return or paper purporting to be a return from a State shall have 
been received by the President of the Senate, those votes, and those only, shall be 
counted which shall have been regularly given by the electors who are shown by the 
determination mentioned in section 5 of this title [the so-called "safe harbor" 
provision] to have been appointed, if the determination in said section provided for 
shall have been made, or by such successors or substitutes, in case of a vacancy in 
the board of electors so ascertained, as have been appointed to fill such vacancy in 
the mode provided by the laws of the State; but in case there shall arise the 
question which of two or more of such State authorities determining what electors 
have been appointed, as mentioned in section 5 of this title, is the lawful tribunal of 
such State, the votes regularly given of those electors, and those only, of such State 
shall be counted whose title as electors the two Houses, acting separately, shall 
concurrently decide is supported by the decision of such State so authorized by its 
law; and in such case of more than one return or paper purporting to be a return 
from a State, if there shall have been no such determination of the question in the 
State aforesaid, then those votes, and those only, shall be counted which the two 
Houses shall concurrently decide were cast by lawful electors appointed in 
accordance with the laws of the State, unless the two Houses, acting separately, 
shall concurrently decide such votes not to be the lawful votes of the legally 
appointed electors of such State. But if the two Houses shall disagree in respect of 
the counting of such votes, then, and in that case, the votes of the electors whose 
appointment shall have been certified by the executive of the State, under the seal 
thereof, shall be counted. 
1. This is the piece that we believe is unconstitutional. It allows the 
two houses, "acting separately," to decide the question, whereas 
the 12th Amendment provides only for a joint session. And if 
there is disagreement, under the Act the slate certified by the 
"executive" of the state is to be counted, regardless of the evidence 
that exists regarding the election, and regardless of whether there 
was ever fair review of what happened in the election, by judges 
and/or state legislatures. That also places the executive of the 
state above the legislature, contrary to Article II.  III. War Gaming the Alternatives. 
a. VP Pence opens the ballots, counts those certified by the State executive, and 
does not receive any objections meeting the requirements of the Electoral 
Count Act. BID EN WINS 306-232. 
b. VP Pence opens the ballots, receives objections to the 7 states with multiple 
ballots. The two bodies adjourn to their separate chambers and decide which 
slate of electors to count. 
1. House votes to count the Biden slate; Senate votes to count the Biden 
slate as well (depending on Georgia election, only 1-3 Republicans 
voting with the Democrats would yield this result. BIDEN WINS 306-
232. 
11. House votes to count the Biden slate; Senate votes to count the Trump 
slate. Under the Electoral Count Act, because the two houses do not 
agree, the slate certified by the "executive" prevails. BID EN WINS 
306-232. 
m. House votes to count the Biden slate; there is a filibuster in the Senate 
(contrary to the time limits of the Electoral Count Act). Stand-off 
until the filibuster ended by a cloture vote, which would only take 10-
12 Republican Senators to accomplish. After the cloture vote, either i 
or ii above. BID EN WINS 306-232. 
c. VP Pence opens the ballots, determines on his own which is valid, asserting 
that the authority to make that determination under the 12th Amendment, 
and the Adams and Jefferson precedents, is his alone (anything in the 
Electoral Count Act to the contrary is therefore unconstitutional). 
1. If State Legislatures have certified the Trump electors, he counts 
those, as required by Article II (the provision of the Electoral Count 
Act giving the default victory to the "executive"-certified slate 
therefore being unconstitutional). Any combination of states totaling 
38 elector votes, and TRUMP WINS. 
11. If State Legislatures have not certified their own slates of electors, VP 
Pence determines, based on all the evidence and the letters from state 
legislators calling into question the executive certifications, decides to 
count neither slate of electors. (Note: this could be done with he gets 
to Arizona in the alphabetical roster, or he could defer Arizona and the 
other multi-slate states until the end, and then make the 
determination). At the end of the count, the tally would therefore be 
232 for Trump, 222 for Biden. Because the 12th Amendment says  "majority of electors appointed," having determined that no electors 
from the 7 states were appointed (a position in accord with that taken 
by Harvard Law Professor Laurence Tribe (here)), TRUMP WINS. 
m. Alternatively, VP Pence determines that because multiple electors 
were appointed from the 7 states but not counted because of ongoing 
election disputes, neither candidate has the necessary 270 elector 
votes, throwing the election to the House. IF the Republicans in the 
State Delegations stand firm, the vote there is 26 states for Trump, 23 
for Biden, and 1 split vote. TRUMP WINS. 
d. VP Pence determines that the ongoing election challenges must conclude 
before ballots can be counted, and adjourns the joint session of Congress, 
determining that the time restrictions in the Electoral County Act are 
contrary to his authority under the 12th Amendment and therefore void. 
Taking the cue, state legislatures convene, order a comprehensive 
audit/investigation of the election returns in their states, and then determine 
whether the slate of electors initially certified is valid, or whether the 
alternative slate of electors should be certified by the legislature, exercise 
authority it has directly from Article II and also from 3 U.S.C. § 2, which 
provides: 
"Whenever any State has held an election for the purpose of choosing electors, 
and has failed to make a choice on the day prescribed by law, the electors may be 
appointed on a subsequent day in such a manner as the legislature of such State 
may direct." 
1. If, after investigation, proven fraud and illegality is insufficient to 
alter the results of the election, the original slate of electors would 
remain valid. BID EN WINS. 
11. If, on the other hand, the investigation proves to the satisfaction of the 
legislature that there was sufficient fraud and illegality to affect the 
results of the election, the Legislature certifies the Trump electors. 
Upon reconvening the Joint Session of Congress, those votes are 
counted and TRUMP WINS. 
IV. BOLD, Certainly. But this Election was Stolen by a strategic Democrat 
plan to systematically flout existing election laws for partisan 
advantage; we're no longer playing by Queensbury Rules, therefore. 
The main thing here is that VP Pence should exercise his 12th Amendment authority 
without asking for permission -either from a vote of the joint session or from the 
Court. Let the other side challenge his actions in court, where Tribe (who in 2001  conceded the President of the Senate might be in charge of counting the votes) and 
others who would press a lawsuit would have their past position --that these are non­
justiciable political questions -thrown back at them, to get the lawsuit dismissed. The 
fact is that the Constitution assigns this power to the Vice President as the ultimate 
arbiter. We should take all of our actions with that in mind. 
I have outlined the likely results of each of the above scenarios, but I should also point 
out that we are facing a constitutional crisis much bigger than the winner of this 
particular election. If the illegality and fraud that demonstrably occurred here is 
allowed to stand-and the Supreme Court has signaled unmistakably that it will not 
do anything about it-then the sovereign people no longer control the direction of their 
government, and we will have ceased to be a self-governing people. The stakes could 
not be higher. 