Rosen, Jeffrey A. (ODAG) 
From: 
Sent: 
To: 
Subject: Rosen, Jeffrey A. (ODAG) 
Saturday, January 2, 2021 7:13 PM 
Donoghue, Richard (ODAG) 
RE: Two Urgent Action Items 
From: Donoghue, Richard (ODAG) <ricdonoghue@jmd.usdoj.gov> 
Sent: Monday, December 28, 2020 5:50 PM ~ 
To: Clark, Jeffrey (ENRD) <JClark@ENRD.USDOJ.GOV> 
Cc: Rosen, Jeffrey A. (ODAG) <jarosen@jmd.usdoj.gov> r ~ 
Subject: RE: Two Urgent Action Items ~ J 
Jeff, 
I have only had a few moments to review the draft letter and re is lot re that would have to 
be thoroughly researched and discussed . That said, the is etter or anything 
remotely like this. 
While it may be true that the Department "is inv 020 election for President" 
(something we typically would not state pub· re of relate to suspicions of 
misconduct that are of such a small scale tha outcome of the Presidential Election. 
AG Barr made that clear to the public only la tervening developments that would 
change that conclusion. Thus, I know of nothi t e statement, "we have identified significant 
concerns that may have impacte iple states." While we are always prepared to 
receive complaints and allegatio investigate them as appropriate, we simply do 
not currently have a basis to matic claims to the contrary, we have not seen the 
type of fraud that calls i ed) results of the election. Also the commitment that 
"the Department w· investigatory progress" is dubious as we do not typically update 
non-law enforcem any investigations . 
More imp t's role should include making recommendations to a State legislature 
about h .... --~ al obligation to appoint Electors. Pursuant to the Electors Clause, the 
Stat prescribed the legal process through which they select their Electors. 
Whi 11 y that election results may "fail[] to make a choice", it is for the individual 
Stat hat situation should it arise. But as I note above, there is no reason to conclude 
ha tion in which their election has failed to produce a choice. As AG Barr indicated in 
ave no doubt that some fraud has occurred in this election, I have not seen evidence 
ould indic election in any individual state was so defective as to render the results fundamentally 
1:1nreliable . Given that, I cannot imagine a scenario in which the Department would recommend that a State assemble 
its legislature to determine whether already-certified election results should somehow be overridden by legislative 
action. Despite the references to the 1960 Hawaii situation (and other historical anomalies, such as the 1876 
Election), I believe this would be utterly without precedent . Even if I am incorrect about that, this would be a grave 
step for the Department to take and it could have tremendous Constitutional, political and social ramifications for the 
country. I do not believe that we could even consider such a proposal without the type of research and discussion 
that such a momentous step warrants. Obviously, OLC would have to be involved in such discussions. 
Document ID: 0.7.2774.173057 
HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-06032021-000200  I am available to discuss this when you are available after 6:00 pm but, from where I stand, this is not even within the 
realm of possibility. 
Rich 
From: Clark, Jeffrey (ENRD) <JClark@ENRD.USDOJ.GOV > 
Sent: Monday, December 28, 2020 4:40 PM 
To: Rosen, Jeffrey A. (ODAG) <jarosen@jmd .usdoj.gov >; Donoghue, Richard (ODAG) <ricdonoghue@ ·md. ov> 
Subject: Two Urgent Action Items 
Jeff and Rich: 
(1) I would like to have your authorization to get a classified briefing tomorro fr, m by DNI 
Radcliffe on foreign election interference issues. I can then assess how that ctivating the IEEPA and 
2018 EO powers on such matters (now twice renewed by the President it, white hat 
hackers have evidence (in the public domain) that a Dominion mach· ugh a smart 
thermostat with a net connection trail leading back to China. ODN d evidence. 
(2) Attached is a draft letter concerning the broader topic o · . e concept is to 
send it to the Governor, Speaker, and President pro tern · te that in light of time 
urgency and sworn evidence of election irregularities ive committees, the 
legislatures thereof should each assemble and ma nt in light of their 
deliberations. I set it up for signature by the thr t as soon as possible. 
Personally, I see no valid downsides to sendin. ickly and would want to do a 
formal cite check before sending but I don't th· moss grow on this 
(As a small matter, I left open me signing as A~ er from Jeff as Acting AG designating 
me as actual AAG of Civil und r th 'f • n thus freeing up the Acting AAG spot in 
ENRD for Jon Brightbill to is small matter. I wouldn't want to hold up the 
letter for that. But I co · with as few as 23 days left in the President's term to 
give Jon and I that a 
I have a 5 pm inte SG + ENRD Toyota team, as I am trying to settle that before 
1/20. But ~e ._.-..a. these subjects circa 6 pm+. 
Or if ou w.ant t'¥each me ork venue to home, my cell # i (b) (6) 
Q 
Document ID: 0.7.2774.173057 
HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-06032021-000201 