From: CMitchell@foley.com <CMitchell@foley.com> 
Sent: Thursday, November 05, 2020 9:41 PM MST 
To: Eastman, John <jeastman@chapman.edu> 
Subject: Legal memo 
External Message 
[External Message] 
John -what would you think of producing a legal memo outlining the constitutional role of state legislators in designating electors? Rather than 
governors, the US Constitution vests that responsibility with state legislators. Where state exec branch officials have rewritten or ignored state election 
law, why couldn't legislatures reclaim that constitutional duly, and designate the electors -rather than delegating to governors. The US statute may be 
unconstitutional as the Gov has no authority under the Constitution to designate electors. Am I crazy? Dick Morris called me about this. I said a legal 
memo would be required and you would be the person to write ii. And maybe get others to sign ii. 
What about that? A movement is stirring. But needs constitutional support. 
Would you be willing to discuss ii with Dick Morris? What about that? 
Cleta Mitchell, Esq. 
Foley & Lardner, LLP 
3000 K Street, NW #600 
Washington, DC 20007 
(202) 295-4081 (direct) 
(202) 672-5300 (main) 
(202) 431-1950 (cell} 
(202) 672-5399 (fax) 
cmitchell@foley.com 
The information contained in this message, including but not limited to any attachments, may be confidential or protected by the attorney-client or work­
product privileges. II is not intended for transmission to, or receipt by, any unauthorized persons. If you have received this message in error, please (i) do 
not read ii, (ii) reply to the sender that you received the message in error, and (iii) erase or destroy the message and any attachments or copies. Any 
disclosure, copying, distribution or reliance on the contents of this message or its attachments is strictly prohibited, and may be unlawful. Unintended 
transmission does not constitute waiver of the attorney-client privilege or any other privilege. Legal advice contained in the preceding message is solely 
for the benefit of the Foley & Lardner LLP client(s) represented by the Firm in the particular matter that is the subject of this message, and may not be 
relied upon by any other party. Unless expressly stated otherwise, nothing contained in this message should be construed as a digital or electronic 
signature, nor is ii intended to reflect an intention to make an agreement by electronic means. 
-NOTE: This email originated from outside Chapman's network. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know 
content is safe. 
NOTE: This email originated from outside Chapman's network. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know content 
is safe. 
Chapman006671 