Statement of 
SamJackson, PhD 
Assistant Professor 
University at Albany 
to the 
United States House of Representatives 
Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
on 
"'Ine Oath Keepers: Background and Trajectory Towards the lnsUITection" 
Submitted on March 30, 2022  One of the most visible elements during the January 6 insurrection at the U .S Capitol was the Oath 
Keepers; as of March 7, 2022, 27 members of the group have been charged with federal crimes for 
actions on that day, including 11 who have been charged with seditious conspiracy.1 Founded in 
2009, this group is a far-right antigovernment organization that is part of the patriot/militia 
movement.' In 2020, Columbia University Press published my book on the organization, entitled 
Oath Keepers: Patnotism And The Edge Of Violence In A Right-Wing Antigovemment Group.3 
This testimony is largely based on my research on the organization since 2015; it also relies on 
research and reporting from other scholars and journalists, including George Washington 
University's Program on Extremism. Additionally, this testimony also draws on my testimony for a 
2021 House Veterans' Affairs Committee hearing on Violent Domestic Extremist Groups and the 
Recruitment ofVeterans.4 In the following pages, I provide information about the organization's 
foundations and the buildup to its participation in the January 6 insurrection. 
Ideology 
As a group, Oath Keepers is organized around a two-part argument: (1) government in America 
(primarily the federal government, but also many state and local governments) is tyrannical, 
violating the rights of everyday Americans in dramatic and systematic ways; and (2) those who the 
group believes to be patriots have the right and responsibility to resist tyrannical government, with 
violence if necessary. 
The organization's name refers to the oath that is commonly taken by individuals who are 
professionally engaged in public service (most prominently the military and law enforcement, but 
also elected officials, civil servants, and others) -an oath that, among other things, includes the 
promise to "support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign 
and domestic."5 Broadly speaking, Oath Keepers has focused primarily on those it perceives to be 
domestic enemies. To a lesser extent, the organization also worries about foreign enemies, though 
even then it tends to focus on foreign enemies that it believes have a domestic presence. 6 
On its face, this desire to support and defend the Constitution is reasonable. But the ideology of 
the Oath Keepers is filled with conspiracy theories that describe evil-intentioned elites working for 
their own benefit at the expense of everyday Americans, and these conspiracy theories -which are 
not based on meaningful evidence -serve as the basis for the group's identification of domestic 
enemies of the Constitution.' For example, the organization has portrayed Agenda 21 (a non­
binding United Nations plan to reduce some of the harms of climate change) as a plot to 
"depopulate the rural areas of America," forcing residents of these areas to move into urban areas 
1 Data on current charges can be found at https://extremism.gwu.edu /Capitol-Hill-Cases . 
2 For more on how I use the terms "far-right," "antigovernment," and "patriot/militia movement," see Jackson, Oath 
Keepers, 9-28. I also discuss these terms with less focus on Oath Keepers in Jackson, "A Schema of Right-Wing 
Extremism in the United States." 
s Jackson, Oath Keepers. 
'Jackson, Violent Domestic Extremist Groups and the Recruitment of Veterans. 
s Enlistment oath: who may administer; Oath of office. Variations on this oath are also common at the state level. For 
example, public officers in New York swear to "support the constitution of the United States, and the constitution of 
the State of New York." The Constitution of the State of New York. 
6 For example, in September 2020, Stewart Rhodes described antifa as "an international terrorist organization" that 
killed a man in Portland, Oregon. He also described Black Lives Matter activists as engaging in an "open communist 
insurrection." Jackson, "The Long, Dangerous History of Right-Wing Calls for Violence and Civil War." 
'Jackson, "Conspiracy Theories in the Patriot/Militia Movement." 
2  where they will be easier to control. s As another example, the organization has suggested that 
FEMA is tasked with identifying and detaining political dissidents.' 
This conspiracism -or a tendency to see events as driven by evil-intentioned actors working 
together in secret1° -can also be seen in one of the central documents for the group, its 
"Declaration of Orders We Will Not Obey."11 In this document, the group describes a number of 
potential orders that it anticipates members of law enforcement and the military might receive that 
the group argues these individuals should refuse to carry out. The issues -including gun 
confiscation, the use of foreign troops on American soil during an emergency, and declarations of 
martial law, among others -are not depicted as abstract hypotheticals; instead, the group sees each 
of these as real possibilities in the near-term future that will require members of the military and 
law enforcement to choose whether to carry out orders to participate in those possibilities. 
One central issue for the group is gun control. Oath Keepers summarizes its view of firearms in 
the "Declaration of Orders We Will Not Obey": the organization says that "that the purpose of 
the Second Amendment is to preserve the military power of the people so that they will, in the last 
resort, have effective final recourse to arms and to the God of Hosts in the face of tyranny." Put 
more simply: Oath Keepers believes that American patriots should be armed so that they can fight 
against tyrannical government. The group has also suggested that the government would try to use 
emergencies as a pretext to confiscate firearms from civilians, pointing to the limited instances 
where this took place in the context of the government's response to Hurricane Katrina as an 
example.12 (The journalist Adam Weinstein explained that arguments about gun confiscation in the 
aftermath of the storm are often mistaken; in short, such confiscation was rather limited and some 
law enforcement agencies even explicitly instructed their personnel not to confiscate firearms 
outside of criminal investigations.13
) 
This organization has long believed that violent conflict with government is inevitable. To make 
sense of the threat the group believes is posed by the government and the broader contemporary 
political context, the group frequently refers to the Revolutionary War.14 Through discussion of 
that conflict, Oath Keepers portrays the contemporary government as similar to the British 
government of the 18th century and contemporary "patriots" as similar to those who fought against 
the British. The group looks to the past for guidance in interpreting ongoing events and for 
examples of appropriate and effective behavior in response to those events. Indeed, the setting of 
group's first public event -a muster on the Lexington Common outside of Boston, Massachusetts, 
s Jackson, Oath Keepers, 117. 
'Jackson, 36. 
10 Barkun, A Culture of Conspiracy, 3-4. 
11 To minimize any potential of increasing the Oath Keepers' audience, I do not link directly to content produced, 
hosted, or shared by the organization in this testimony. However, an archive of the primary documents that served as 
the basis for my research can be found at https://github.com/sjacks26 /OK-archive-2020 . For more on the "Declaration 
of Orders We Will Not Obey," see Jackson, Oath Keepers, 77-80. This document is also reproduced in Jackson, 
141-48. 
12 For a more detailed discussion of how the organization has talked about Hurricane Katrina and the government's 
response, see Jackson, Oath Keepers, 99-109. 
13 Weinstein, "The NRA Twisted a Tiny Part of the Katrina Disaster to Fit Its Bigger Agenda"; Jackson, Oath Keepers, 
178-79 note 24. 
1
' For more on the group's discussion of perceived parallels between the Revolutionary War and contemporary 
America, see Jackson, Oath Keepers, 7 5-90. 
3  on April 19, 2009 -was deliberately chosen by Stewart Rhodes, the founder and president of the 
group, "to remind us all of where we have come from .... The blood of patriots was spilled on that 
Green, and we need to have the same conviction they had, when it comes to carrying out our 
duty."1s 
Oath Keepers has recognized that this belief in a coming conflict might not be convincing -or 
even palatable -to many Americans, and the group has strategized ways to help Americans get 
ready for that conflict while hiding that goal. In 2013, the organization launched its "Community 
Preparedness Teams" (CPT) program, which is effectively an armed neighborhood watch 
modeled on Special Forces teams. To encourage more people to participate, Rhodes suggested 
that those organizing CPT units talk about it as a form of FEMA's Community Emergency 
Response Teams (CERT) or to frame paramilitary training as part of the CPT program as 
preparation for fending off armed criminal or terrorists, because training to fend off ISIS would 
also prepare individuals to fight against the "secret police."16 
Unlike other far right organizations and movements, Oath Keepers is not organized around a 
perceived racial identity or a perceived threat to that identity. Put more simply, Oath Keepers 
should not be understood as a racist, white supremacist, or white power movement as such. It is 
certainly true that the organization has engaged in bigoted rhetoric and action, and it is also true 
that racist and xenophobic individuals might join the organization. And as Dr. Amy Cooter has 
argued about a militia group in Michigan, Oath Keepers advocates for policies, systems, and 
structures that disproportionately harm minoritized communities. 1' But the group does not 
explicitly promote racism -even a sanitized or "white-washed" version of racism -directly. 
Overall, the Oath Keepers ideology posits domestic enemies of the Constitution who would violate 
the rights of Americans for their own evil and selfish purposes and encourages Americans to 
prepare to fight back against those enemies. 
Formation of the Group 
The Oath Keepers organization formally launched in early 2009. Its first public event took place 
on April 19, though Stewart Rhodes spent the days and weeks before that event speaking at Tea 
Party rallies (for example, in Knoxville, Tennessee, on April 15, he led the crowd in an oath­
swearing ceremony). Rhodes has said that he and his colleagues decided to form the organization 
prior to the outcome of the 2008 presidential election, while he was volunteering for Ron Paul's 
presidential campaign in Nevada. 18 
Since its founding, the group has oriented itself around encouraging current and former members 
of the military and law enforcement to honor their oath to the Constitution (given the 
organization's particular understanding of that oath and what it would mean to honor it). At the 
same time, the group welcomes people with no military or law enforcement (or other first 
responder) experience to join as well. (Those without such experience are called "associate 
15 Jackson, 76. 
16 Jackson, 44. 
17 Cooter, "Americanness, Masculinity, and Whiteness: How Michigan Militia Men Navigate Evolving Social Norms." 
13 Jackson, Oath Keepers, 33. 
4  members," while "full membership" is reserved for those with that experience; I am unaware of 
any substantive difference between these categories.)1' 
Organimtional Structure 
As an organization, Oath Keepers is structured around two levels: (1) the national organization and 
(2) state and local chapters. 
The national organization, led by Rhodes, is primarily responsible for managing the Oath Keepers 
brand, creating organization-wide initiatives (like the CPT program), and organizing and promoting 
high profile events (such as the first muster in 2009, the Bundy Ranch standoff in Nevada in 2014, 
and so-called security operations like Operation Protect the Protectors, which was intended to 
provide armed security at military recruiting offices after deadly shootings at a recruiting center and 
Navy Reserve location in Chattanooga, Tennessee, in 2015). The national organization also 
controls official membership in the group, collecting dues and administering members-only 
forums20 and online meetings. 
State and local chapters seem to have a substantial degree of autonomy much of the time, deciding 
what activities to engage in (from recruiting to conventional political activism to paramilitary 
training to so-called security operations) and how to carry them out. For example, the New York 
state chapter held an annual awards dinner for several years;21 chapters in Pennsylvania and West 
Virginia have held multi-day summits that included speeches and trainings." Additionally, it seems 
possible that an individual could be affiliated with a state or local chapter without being a dues­
paying member of the national organization (or vice versa). 
Since the organization's founding, it has claimed to have state and local chapters across the 
country. It is difficult to verify which states and localities have actually had active chapters, though it 
is safe to say that there have been chapters throughout the country, from California to Texas to 
Florida to New Hampshire to Ohio to Montana and many places in between. 
Some high-profile events start out as local chapter initiatives before catching the attention of 
national leadership. For example, the Sugar Pine Mine security operation in 2015 was primarily 
led by the localJosephine County, Oregon chapter; later, the national organization issued a wide 
call to action for members and supporters to travel to rural southwest Oregon to take part in the 
operation, and the national organization also organized fundraising efforts intended to reimburse 
participants for travel expenses and to allow the group to provide gear (like body armor) for 
volunteers who did not have their own equipment. 23 
National leadership has also vetoed local initiatives at times. For example, members of Oath 
Keepers were present in Ferguson, Missouri, starting in 2014 in the context of Black Lives Matter 
protests after Michael Brown was shot and killed by a law enforcement officer. One of the Oath 
19 Jackson, 31. 
20 Members-only forums managed by the organization have existed at different times during the group's history, though 
I am unable to confirm if they always existed or were always active when they did exist. 
21 Trafton, "Former Sheriff Recognized by Oath Keepers"; Anti-Defamation League, 'Wisconsin Sheriff David Clarke, 
Jr., Reported Headed to DHS, Has Ties to Extremist Groups." 
22 "Oath Keepers Group Sets Local Summit." 
23 Jackson, Oath Keepers, 1-3, 49-50. 
5  Keepers present in Ferguson, Sam Andrews, announced that he wanted to organize an open carry 
march with members of the organization alongside residents of the area. The national vice 
president at the time told Andrews that he would need national leadership to sign off on the idea; 
the Board of Directors eventually decided that the organization would not participate in an open 
carry march. 24 
Key Figures 
The most important individual within the Oath Keepers organization is Stewart Rhodes, the 
founder and president. According to the group's bylaws, he is the president of the group for life 
unless he resigns or is found incompetent by the group's Board of Directors." 
After Rhodes was arrested on federal charges of seditious conspiracy onJanuary 13, 2022, Kellye 
SoRelle (who is the organization's general counsel) announced that she would serve as acting 
president while Rhodes remains detained; after Rhodes was denied bail, SoRelle tweeted on 
February 8, 2022, that someone else would step in to lead the group." 
The composition of the Board of Directors has changed over time. At various times, the Board 
has included David Freeman (also the Vice President when the group launched), W. Rand 
Cardwell, David R. Gillie, David T. Helms, Michele lmburgia,John Karriman, Richard Mack, 
Rex H. McTyeire,John Shirley, and Franklin Shook (a.k.a. Elias Alias), among others.'' 
From the group's founding through November 2016, Shook, more commonly known as "Elias 
Alias," also served as the editor of the Oath Keepers website. Alias served in the military during 
the Vietnam War. As editor, Alias wrote many articles promoting conspiracy theories that used 
rather apocalyptic language. For example, an article he wrote about the Jade Helm 15 conspiracy 
theory described that military training exercise as an elaborate "psy-op" (psychological operation) 
targeting Americans with the goal of increasing the chances that they would not resist violations of 
their rights." Alias has also been the long-time administrator for The Mental Militia, a website and 
forum that has operated intermittently since late 1999 in various forms." 
Jason Van Tatenhove was another influential public-facing member of the national organization. 
From 2014-2018, he was a spokesperson and media director for Oath Keepers. In addition to 
speaking to the media, Van Tatenhove also created content for the organization, and he co-hosted 
a podcast called "The Liberty Brothers Radio Show." According to media reports, he left the 
group in 2018 and wants to "atone" for his actions while with Oath Keepers.30 
"Jackson, 47-49, 52-53. 
25 Jackson, 30. 
26 https://web.archive.org/web /20220310l33636 /https://twitter.com /kellyesorelle /status/1491168200167 6697 60 
2
' This list is compiled from information from the Nevada Secretary of State, including documents I obtained in 2014 
and information found via Nevada's online business entity search tool 
(https:// esos.nv.gov /EntitySearch / OnlineEntitySearch ). 
23 Jackson, Oath Keepers, 50. 
2
' https://web.archive.org/web /20210128042047 /https://thementalmilitia.ne t/ about/ 
so Allam and Hsu, "Oath Keepers Founder Draws Scrutiny from Federal Officials and Followers." 
6  Richard Mack served on the Board for several years as well (from 2010 through 2015).31 Mack is a 
former Arizona sheriff who has been active in antigovemment extremism since at least the 1990s, 
when "he sued the federal government over a provision of the Brady Bill that required state law 
enforcement officers to approve of firearm transfers on an interim basis while the federal 
government's National Instant Criminal Background Check System was created. "32 In 2011, Mack 
started the Constitutional Sheriffs and Peace Officers Association (CSPOA), an advocacy 
organization that attempts to convince sheriffs that they are the supreme law enforcement authority 
within their counties, with the right and responsibility to prevent laws or legal orders deemed 
unconstitutional from being enforced in their jurisdiction.33 
Another important figure who promoted conspiracy theories on the Oath Keepers website was the 
pseudonymous "NavyJack." This individual, who claimed to be a Navy veteran, wrote a number of 
articles from 2016 through early 2018. 34 Many of them focused on a belief that the 2016 election 
would be manipulated by the Democratic Party and left-leaning Americans to steal the presidency 
from Donald Trump. NavyJack also wrote posts about the group's Operation Sabot (to monitor 
polling places for anticipated voter fraud) and Operation HYPO (to infiltrate groups that were 
believed to be working to prevent Trump from being inaugurated) in the days and weeks 
surrounding the election. 
Throughout the group's history, some individuals have played important roles in specific events 
(some of which are discussed below). Additionally, this list of key figures focuses on those who 
have been key for the national organization. Other individuals have played prominent roles for 
state or local chapters (such as some of the members of the organization who have been charged 
for actions on January 6, 2021). As my research has focused on the national organization, I am 
unable to list key figures for various state and local chapters. 
Key Events 
Launch 
The first key event for the organization was its gathering on April 19, 2009, on the Lexington 
Common outside of Boston, Massachusetts. This muster served as a formal launch event for the 
group, and it featured speeches from a number of key figures and special guests, including Stewart 
Rhodes, Richard Mack, and others.35 
Bundy Ranch Standoff 
The organization did not engage in another high-profile event until 2014.36 In April 2014, members 
of Oath Keepers traveled to Bunkerville, Nevada, answering Cliven Bundy's call for like-minded 
individuals to support his efforts to prevent the Bureau of Land Management and supporting law 
enforcement agencies from carrying out a federal court order to confiscate some of Bundy's cattle 
in lieu of more than $1,000,000 in unpaid fees and penalties (accumulated over years of Bundy 
31 Mencimer, "He Was a Board Member of the Oath Keepers. Now He's Holding State-Approved Trainings for Law 
Enforcement in Texas." 
32 Jackson, Oath Keepers, 39-40. 
33 Anti-Defamation League, "The Constitutional Sheriffs and Peace Officers Association (CSPOA) and Richard 
Mack";Jackson, Oath Keepers, 20-21, 15ln8. 
34 https://web.archive.org/web /20200516081310 /https:// oathkeepers.org/author /navy-jack/ 
35 Jackson, Oath Keepers, 39-41. 
36 For a brief discussion of the lower-profile events between the Lexington muster and 2014, see Jackson, 41-46. 
7  refusing to pay required fees to graze his cattle on federal land)." The Oath Keepers contingent 
included Stewart Rhodes, Richard Mack,Jerry Delemus38 (from New Hampshire; Delemus served 
6 years in federal prison after pleading guilty to two federal charges related to the standoff39
), 
Brandon Rapolla, Steve Homan (then a member of the Board of Directors and the leader of the 
Nebraska chapter), David Helms (then vice president of the organization), Sheriff Brad Rogers 
(from Indiana), Sheriff Denny Peyman (from Kentucky), and Sheriff Jeff Christopher (from 
Delaware), among others. Members of the organization engaged in a range of activities at the 
Bundy Ranch, including scouting Bureau of Land Management and law enforcement positions 
and helping to move temporary fencing put in place by federal employees. After the Bureau of 
Land Management operation ended, members of Oath Keepers remained at the ranch; Rhodes 
suggested that the group viewed an ongoing presence as necessary to prevent the government from 
resuming its efforts to enforce the court order. 
In late April, the group claimed that it had received credible intelligence that Eric Holder, then the 
Attorney General, had authorized a drone strike against Bundy and his supporters. Oath Keepers 
shared this information with those at the ranch while it attempted to confirm it. The organization 
concluded that the information was sufficiently credible that it was worth acting on, and it 
encouraged those at the ranch to either create hardened positions that would offer protection from 
a missile attack or to relocate away from the ranch temporarily. When members of Oath Keepers 
pulled out to relocate, other supporters of Bundy said they were cowards and deserters; Oath 
Keepers later released a video on Y ouTube defending its members' actions and attacking other 
supporters of Bundy.40 Despite this conflict, the organization (and the broader antigovernment far 
right) has looked on the Bundy Ranch standoff as a success and as an example of how those it 
considers to be patriots should resist actions seen as tyranny. 
Ferguson, Afissouri 
In November 2014, the organization began to have an intermittent presence in Ferguson, Missouri 
that would last through August 2015. After a police officer shot and killed Michael Brown in 
August, the local community engaged in protests, contributing to the growth of the Black Lives 
Matter movement. Initially, Oath Keepers released statements opposing the aggressive law 
enforcement response to those protests. By the time members of the group were on site, though, 
their focus changed to providing armed security for local businesses. Local police ordered these 
members of Oath Keepers to stop their activity, arguing that they were operating as an unlicensed 
security outfit; after initially complying, the individuals returned to their activity while arguing that 
they did not need a license since they were volunteers. John Karriman (then an instructor at 
Missouri Southern State University's Police Academy) and Sam Andrews were two of the leading 
Oath Keepers figures in Ferguson.41 
37 Jackson, 46-47. 
38 Delemus has been identified as a member of the organization, although comments from Rhodes in 2014 suggest that 
Rhodes did not know Delemus before the Bundy Ranch standoff. For identification of Delemus as a member, see 
Garrison, Bensinger, and Hernandez, "Oath Keepers Founder Betrayed Mission, Former Members Say";Jackson, 
Oath Keepers, 46. For Rhodes's comments, see https://github.com /sjacks26/OK-archive-
2020/blob /master/data/Raw text video transcripts /Oath%20Keepers%20Bundy%20Ranch%20Debrief.txt 
39 Crompton, "Rochester Man Imprisoned for Role in Nevada Standoff Returns Home." 
'° Jackson, Oath Keepers, 47. 
'1Jackson, 47-49. 
8  In August 2015, Sam Andrews announced that he wanted to organize an open carry march with 
members of the organization alongside residents of the area as protests over Michael Brown's 
death continued. The national vice president at the time told Andrews that he would need national 
leadership to sign off on the idea; the Board of Directors eventually decided that the organization 
would not participate in an open carry march. Andrews decried this as a racist double standard and 
left the organization; in return, the organization posted a video to Y ouTube saying that they had 
learned that Andrews was unstable and possibly violent. 42 
Sugar Pine Mine 
In April 2015, the Josephine County (Oregon) chapter of Oath Keepers began a so-called security 
operation at the Sugar Pine Mine. The Bureau of Land Management ordered the two miners who 
held the Sugar Pine Mine claim to stop work. The miners filed an appeal against the order, but 
they believed that the Bureau of Land Management might come onto their land and damage their 
property (believing that Bureau of Land Management has engaged in this type of activity for years 
to harass operators of small extractive industries). The miners asked the local chapter of Oath 
Keepers to provide security for their claim.Joseph Rice, the leader of the Josephine County Oath 
Keepers, organized a 24/7 operation, releasing calls to action for volunteers and donations. The 
operation was large enough that one Oath Keeper, Mary Emerick, served as a public information 
officer, liaising with media who came to report on the activity. Emerick claimed that at least 700 
volunteers participated in the security operation, fulfilling roles from armed security to camp cook. 
The Bureau of Land Management announced that it had no intention of taking any action while 
the miners' appeal was pending. Eventually, the security operation ended with the Oath Keepers 
declaring victory despite no conflict with the federal employees or law enforcement: they argued 
that their presence prevented the government from violating the miners' due process rights. 43 
Jade Helm 15 
Moving into summer 2015, Oath Keepers began to pay attention to Jade Helm 15, a large military 
exercise taking place in a number of states in the Southwest. Along with other Americans, the 
organization promoted conspiracy theories about the exercise, wondering whether it would be a 
practice run for implementing martial law or would actually be the first steps of martial law itself. 
To my knowledge, the organization did not engage in any noteworthy offiine activity related to Jade 
Helm 15, but the broader conspiracy theorizing that Oath Keepers contributed to grew so 
prominent that Texas governor Greg Abbott ordered the Texas State Guard to monitor the 
exercise within his state to ensure that Texans' rights weren't violated.44 
Operation Protect the Protectors 
On July 16, 2015, a man shot and killed four Marines and a Navy sailor at a recruiting center and 
Naval Reserve installation in Chattanooga, Tennessee. Oath Keepers responded to this event with 
a new initiative to provide armed security at military recruiting centers, called "Operation Protect 
the Protectors." A few days after several state chapters started doing this, the national organization 
put out a nationwide call to action to expand the effort. Rhodes said that members of the group 
should do this "until the DOD [Department of Defense] changes its idiotic policy of insisting that 
recruiters go unarmed."45 
42 Jackson, 47-49, 52-53. 
,s Jackson, 1-3, 49-50. 
44 Jackson, 50; Jackson, "Conspiracy Theories in the Patriot/Militia Movement," 12-13. 
"5 Quoted in Jackson, Oath Keepers, 51. 
9  Kim Davis 
In September 2015, the organization turned its attention to another developing situation.46 After 
the Supreme Court ruled in Oberge/ell v. Hodges that same-sex couples have a constitutionally­
protected right to marriage, the clerk of Rowan County, Kentucky -Kim Davis -refused to issue 
marriage licenses to same sex couples. After further refusing to comply with a federal judge's 
specific order to Davis to resume issuing marriage licenses, that judge found her in contempt of 
court and decided that she would be incarcerated until she agreed to comply with the legal order. 
After several days during which Davis's deputies issued marriage licenses, the judge released Davis 
from custody. One day later, Oath Keepers publicly offered to provide the clerk with armed 
security to prevent her from being taken into custody again, if she were to again decide not to 
comply with the legal order. The group said that her imprisonment for contempt of court violated 
Davis's "due process rights, and in particular her right to a jury trial," decrying the act as an 
example of an "imperial judiciary" that tries to "swallow up our Bill of Rights."47 The organization 
declared that it was preparing to deploy an armed security team to Kentucky to protect Davis, and 
that the organization would attempt to "teach" the Rowan County sheriff about his rights and 
responsibilities to protect those in his county from tyrannical government. However, Davis's legal 
team quickly turned down this offer for armed security. Oath Keepers announced that its 
members would not travel to Kentucky for this security operation, because the group "always 
seek[s] the full consent and cooperation of anyone we protect.',.8 
Malheur National Wildlife Refuge 
Just a few months later, Oath Keepers would find a new situation that would capture its attention.49 
In late 2015, antigovernment activists traveled to Bums, Oregon, to demonstrate on behalf of 
father-and-son ranchers Dwight and Steven Hammond. The Hammonds had been convicted on 
federal charges of arson in 2012. Their original prison sentence was substantially less than the 
statutory minimum; the Department ofJustice appealed the sentence in 2015, and an appeals 
court ruled that the Hammonds would have to return to prison to comply with the statutory 
requirement. Some antigovemment extremists interpreted this as double jeopardy (rather than 
simply being a sentence revised upon appeal), and all of the extremists viewed it as unjust. 
What began as protests on behalf of the Hammonds in Bums turned into the occupation of the 
Malheur National Wildlife Refuge, after Ammon Bundy (one of Cliven Bundy's sons and a leader 
of the protests in Bums) declared that it was time to take a "hard stand" against tyrannical 
government.50 Bundy and his allies -many of whom openly carried firearms -occupied several 
administrative buildings at the Refuge for approximately a month. 
Despite their support for the Bundy Ranch standoff in 2014, some of the leaders of Oath Keepers 
were opposed to this occupation even before it began. For example, Rhodes urged Ammon to 
stop using heated rhetoric in late 2015 while the focus was still on the Hammonds. Even once the 
46 Jackson, 53-54. 
Quoted in Jackson, 54. 
48 Quoted in Jackson, 54. 
49 Jackson, 55-57. 
so Jackson, 55-57.  occupation began, Oath Keepers continued to voice opposition: Rhodes called for Ammon to end 
the occupation four days after it began.51 
Despite opposition from the group's leadership, some members of Oath Keepers decided to 
support the occupation. For example, Jon Ritzheimer participated in the occupation for most of its 
duration. Ritzheimer had a history of engaging in inflammatory and threatening activity: just in 
2015, he organized anti-Islam events in Arizona, announced that he was driving across the country 
to confront a Muslim organization in New York State, and declared that he intended to arrest 
Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) for treason for her support of the Iran nuclear agreement." 
Other members of Oath Keepers decided to participate in a "security operation" to reduce the 
chances of violence between law enforcement and the occupiers. The Josephine County Oath 
Keepers (the chapter that organized the security operation at the Sugar Pine Mine in 2015) joined 
with several Three Percenters53 groups under the banner of the Pacific Patriots Network. 
Participants in this umbrella group were heavily armed, but they believed themselves to be 
reducing the chances of violence rather than increasing those chances. Oath Keepers leadership 
supported this operation: Rhodes declared it "a buffer to prevent another Waco incident," and a 
"righteous mission, if done right."54 Ultimately, the Pacific Patriots Network took no direct action in 
Malheur beyond communicating with law enforcement and the occupiers. 
2016 Presidential Election and Transition 
Just as it was for the country as a whole, 2016 was an important year for Oath Keepers. In the early 
stages of the presidential election of that year, the organization did not come out in favor of 
Donald Trump's candidacy. But from the earliest days of his candidacy, it was clear that many 
members of the organization would support him (along with many other right-wing extremists of 
different types). By early November, the group had all-but come out in favor of Trump, and it was 
convinced that Trump would easily win the popular vote unless there was widespread voter fraud 
on behalf of the Democratic Party and Hillary Clinton. After the activist group Project Veritas 
released manipulated video footage claiming to depict Democratic Party operatives planning voter 
fraud, Oath Keepers decided that it should get involved in efforts to find additional evidence of 
this. Rhodes announced Operation Sabot, calling on the group's police, military intelligence, and 
"Special Warfare" veterans to "apply their considerable training in investigation, intelligence 
gathering, and fieldcraft to help stop voter fraud."55 As part of this call, he instructed members of 
the group not to wear any Oath Keepers gear to reduce the chances of "partisan Democrat activists 
and the media (essentially the same thing)" accusing Oath Keepers of engaging in voter 
intimidation.56 
51 Jackson, 56. 
52 Jackson, 56-57. 
The Three Percenters is an antigovemment extremist movement within the patriot/militia movement. Its name 
comes from the (unsupported) belief that three percent of the residents of what were then the British colonies in 
North America actively fought against the British to win independence for the United States, and that three percent of 
Americans today would be able to defeat the American government as well. See Jackson, "'Nullification through 
Armed Civil Disobedience"'; Southern Poverty Law Center, "Michael Brian Vanderboegh"; Anti-Defamation League, 
"Three Percenters." 
Quoted inJackson, Oath Keepers, 57. 
55 Quoted in Jackson, 58. 
56 Quoted in Jackson, 59. 
11  In the end, Trump won the Electoral College vote, giving him the presidency. As large protests 
emerged around the country opposing Trump, Oath Keepers began to say that "the political elite ... 
is determined to subvert the will of the American people" and even that "Communists Intend to 
Overthrow the United States before Inauguration Day."57 In response, the organization announced 
Operation HYPO, in which its members would infiltrate organizations and movements involved in 
the protests to "collect information regarding tactics, motivations, schedules and logistics."58 In both 
Operation Sabot and Operation HYPO, Oath Keepers specifically decided to take covert action, 
hiding its identity, as an informal "counterintelligence" effort against those it perceived as domestic 
enemies of the Constitution. 
The group also believed that anti-Trump forces would try to prevent his inauguration in January 
2017. The group announced another project, "Operation DefendJ20," in which its members 
would informally supplement the official security effort for Trump's inauguration. The group 
claims that it provided intelligence to Washington D.C. police that prevented a plot to disrupt the 
DeploraBall (an inauguration party affiliated with the so-called alt-right).59 
The 2016 presidential election served as an inflection point for the group. Until this point, its focus 
was overwhelmingly on government as the greatest threat to everyday Americans. But with its 
increasing focus on perceived threats posed by opponents of Donald Trump, the organization 
revealed its pivot to identifying other Americans as the greatest threat to America as a whole. 
Throughout the next several years, members of the group periodically participated in street 
violence against antifa and other left-leaning opponents of Trump. 60 
ACT for Amen·ca Marches 
Though Oath Keepers as an organization is not structured around racism and xenophobia as such, 
lslamophobia has been a recurrent feature of actions and rhetoric promoted by the organization. 
For example, inJune 2017, ACT for America (an anti-Muslim organization) planned "Marches 
Against Sharia" across the nation, and ACT requested that groups including Oath Keepers (and 
others like Lghtf oot Militia units) provide security after antifa groups declared their intention to 
counter-demonstrate. 61 
Disaster relief 
Since its launch, Oath Keepers has periodically tried to portray itself as a civic organization. One 
way it has done this is via occasional community service. In 2017, the organization engaged in 
volunteer disaster relief efforts in Texas, Florida, and Puerto Rico after devastating hurricanes. 
However, even this volunteer work is tinged by the group's ubiquitous thinking about violence and 
security: in Puerto Rico, members of the group provided security for a hospital, though I am 
57 Quoted in Jackson, 59. 
58 Quoted in Jackson, 59. 
59 Jackson, 59-60. The Daily Beast reported that Oath Keepers worked with Project Veritas to uncover this 
information, which allegedly depicted anti-Trump activists plotting to attack the party with butyric acid. The Daily 
Beast article describes this as a "stink bomb." Weill, "Feds Use Right-Wing Militia's Video to Prosecute Trump 
Protesters." 
60 Kriner and Lewis, "The Oath Keepers and Their Role in the January 6 Insurrection," 8-10. 
61 Jackson, Oath Keepers, 61. 
12  unaware of any concrete threats or reports of violence that this security effort might have aimed to 
counter." 
Lead-up to 2020 
Through the Trump administration's tenure, Oath Keepers regularly identified American 
opposition to that administration as a threat to the country itself. In addition to participating in 
street violence with antifa and other perceived opponents of the Trump administration, the group 
suggested that formal actions taken as part of the American political system were also illegitimate. 
For example, in 2019 Rhodes described the potential impeachment of Trump as an attempt by the 
left "to simply undo the 2016 election results that they don't like."63 In Oath Keepers's good-and­
evil understanding of contemporary America, any action taken that the organization does not agree 
with is interpreted as violating core Americans principles, values, and processes. 
By 2020, the rhetoric used by Oath Keepers became even more alarming. In August and 
September, Rhodes described antifa and the Black Lives Matter movement as terrorists and as 
entities engaged in "open communist insurrection."64 Though the organization had long worried 
about martial law as a tool that a tyrannical federal government would use to violate the rights of 
dissenting Americans, Rhodes now openly called on the Trump administration to declare martial 
law to violate the rights of dissenting Americans. He argued that the shooting of a Trump 
supporter in Portland was "the first shot" of a new civil war. 65 And he further argued that, if Trump 
didn't take action to suppress the alleged insurrection, his organization would.66 No longer content 
to speak about violence in an abstract way that would provide him with plausible deniability should 
someone decide to take action based on his words, Rhodes now was happy to openly call for 
violence (though still couching it in defensive terms). 
Conclusion 
Throughout its history, Oath Keepers has perceived many threats and prepared for violent conflict 
in response to those threats. From 2009 to 2016, those perceived threats primarily came from the 
federal government thought to be tyrannical. From 2016 to 2021, the organization increasingly 
focused on perceived threats supposedly brought by Americans who opposed the Trump 
administration. 
Prior to 2020, the organization was generally careful to couch its actions and rhetoric around 
violence as defensive in nature. The group urged Americans to prepare for violence but to wait 
until others (inevitably) start a violent conflict. At the same time, Oath Keepers has consistently 
taken action that makes violent conflict more likely. For example, at the Bundy Ranch standoff, 
the organization's members were heavily armed as they worked to prevent federal employees from 
carrying out a court order -generally speaking, being armed when confronting law enforcement 
increases the odds that law enforcement will see you as a threat and themselves prepare for 
possible violence. Cliven Bundy himself reportedly said that "one backfire of a vehicle, one 
firecracker, one somebody makes a crazy gunshot... there would have probably been lots of people 
62 Jackson, 61. 
63 Quoted in Jackson, 123. 
64 Quoted inJackson, "The Long, Dangerous History of Right-Wing Calls for Violence and Civil War." 
6.5 Quoted in Jackson. 
66 Kriner and Lewis, "The Oath Keepers and Their Role in the January 6 Insurrection," 10-12. Tweets from Oath 
Keepers suggesting this were sent on and around 30 Aug 2020; unavailable online, screenshots held by author. 
13  maybe killed."67 Rhodes in particular has been risk averse, perhaps because of his legal training. As 
I argue throughout my book, he and his organization promote rhetoric and ideas that set the stage 
for individuals to decide for themselves that violence is justified. 68 
By 2020, this caution had been abandoned. Even in public-facing communication on Twitter, 
Rhodes plainly called for violence (in this case, against antifa and Black Lives Matter activists 
whom he portrayed as domestic enemies of the Constitution). 69 And as legal filings related to the 
seditious conspiracy charges reveal, members of the organization wanted to make members of 
Congress "very uncomfortable with all of us being a few hundred feet away," strongly suggesting 
that these individuals wanted to coerce Congress to decline to certify the Electoral College vote.'0 
In both the earlier more cautious stance and the later position that more openly called for 
violence, Oath Keepers has posed a threat to American democracy. In addition to promoting ideas 
that set the stage for individuals to decide to take up violence as a tool to achieve their political 
goals, the group promotes a version of American politics that is a battle between good and evil, 
where the evildoers work in secret to benefit themselves at the expense of everyday Americans. 
This conspiracism is directly tied to the events ofJanuary 6, 2021, where members of the 
organization believed -with no real evidence -that the Constitution and the nation itself were 
under threat and needed to be protected with proactive, aggressive, and violent action. 
67 Rogers, "Nevada Rancher Bundy Waits as FBI Probes." 
68 For example, Chapter 4 examines how the group talks about "natural rights" in ways that could lead individuals to 
decide that their natural rights have been violated and that they have no recourse other than violence. Jackson, Oath 
Keepers, 65-74. 
69 Jackson, "The Long, Dangerous History of Right-Wing Calls for Violence and Civil War." 
70 Jackson, Kriner, and Lewis, "Oath Keepers Leader lndictmentJust the Tip of a Scary Iceberg." This desire to 
intimidate elected officials to achieve a political outcome matches the definition of domestic terrorism in USA 
PATRIOT ACT. 18 USC§ 2331(5). 
14  Works Cited 
Allam, Hannah, and Spencer S. Hsu. "Oath Keepers Founder Draws Scrutiny from Federal 
Officials and Followers." Washington Post, September 17, 2021. 
https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/rhodes-oath-keepers-capitol­
riot/202l/09/l 6/a6a872c0-l 0b6-l lec-a51 l-cb913c7 e5ba0_story.html. 
Anti-Defamation League. "The Constitutional Sheriffs and Peace Officers Association (CSPOA) 
and Richard Mack: How Extremists Are Successfully Infiltrating Law Enforcement." Anti­
Defamation League, September 2021. https://www.adl.org/resources/reports/the­
constitutional-sheriffs-and-peace-officers-association-cspoa-and-richard-mack. 
--. "Three Percenters." Anti-Defamation League. Accessed March 22, 2022. 
https://www.adl.org/resources/backgrounders/three-percenters. 
--. "Wisconsin Sheriff David Clarke,Jr., Reported Headed to DHS, Has Ties to Extremist 
Groups." Anti-Defamation League, May 18, 2017. https://www.adl.org/blog/wisconsin­
sheriff-david-clarke-jr-reported-headed-to-dhs-has-ties-to-extremist-groups. 
Barkun, Michael. A Culture of Conspiracy: Apocalyptic Visions in Contemporary Amen·ca. 2nd 
ed. Berkeley: University of California Press, 2013. 
Cooter, Amy B. "Americanness, Masculinity, and Whiteness: How Michigan Militia Men Navigate 
Evolving Social Norms." University of Michigan, 2013. 
https://deepblue.lib.umich.edu/bitstream/handle/2027 .42/98077 / cooterab _l. pdf;sequence~ 
1. 
Crompton,Jennifer. "Rochester Man Imprisoned for Role in Nevada Standoff Returns Home." 
WMUR, November 9, 2021. https://www.wmur.com/article/rochester-man-imprisoned-for­
role-in-nevada-standoff-returns-home/38203183. 
Enlistment oath: who may administer, 10 U.S. Code § 502. Accessed March 7, 2022. 
https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/l 0/ 502. 
Garrison,Jessica, Ken Bensinger, and Salvador Hernandez. "Oath Keepers Founder Betrayed 
Mission, Former Members Say," March 4, 2021. 
https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/jessicagarrison/stewart-rhodes-oath-keepers-early­
history-conflicts. 
Jackson, Sam. "A Schema of Right-Wing Extremism in the United States." Policy Briefs. 
International Centre for Counter-Terrorism -The Hague, November 4, 2019. 
https://icct.nl/publication/a-schema-of-right-wing-extremism-in-the-united-states/. 
--. "Conspiracy Theories in the Patriot/Militia Movement." GWU Program on Extremism, 
May 2017. 
https:// extremism.gwu.edu/ sites/ g/files/zaxdzs2 l 9 l/f/ downloads/} ackson%2C%20Conspirac 
y%20Theories%20Final. pdf. 
--. "'Nullification through Armed Civil Disobedience': A Case Study of Strategic Framing in the 
Patriot/Militia Movement." Dynamics of Asymmefiic Conflict 12, no. 1 (2019): 90-109. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/17 467 586.2018.1563904. 
--. Oath Keepers: Pafiiotism and the Edge of Violence in a Right-Wing Antigovernment 
Group. New York: Columbia University Press, 2020. https://cup.columbia.edu/book/oath­
keepers/9780231550314. --. "The Long, Dangerous History of Right-Wing Calls for Violence and Civil War." 
Washington Post, September 11, 2020, sec. Monkey Cage. 
https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2020/09/l l/long-dangerous-history-far-rights-calls­
violence-civil-war/. 
15  --. Violent Domestic Extremist Groups and the Recruitment of Veterans, § Veterans' Affairs 
(2021). https://veterans.house.gov /events/hearings/violent-domestic-extremist-groups-and­
the-recruitment-of-veterans. 
Jackson, Sam, Matthew Kriner, and Jon Lewis. "Oath Keepers Leader Indictment Just the Tip of a 
Scary Iceberg." NBC News, January 17, 2022. 
https://www.nbcnews.com/think/opinion/oath-keepers-leader-indictment-just-tip-scary­
iceberg-ncnal 287 555. 
Kriner, Matthew, andJon Lewis. "The Oath Keepers and Their Role in the January 6 
Insurrection." CTC Sentinell4, no. 10 (December 22, 2021): 1-18. 
Mencimer, Stephanie. "He Was a Board Member of the Oath Keepers. Now He's Holding State­
Approved Trainings for Law Enforcement in Texas." Mother Jones, October 29, 2021. 
https://www.motherjones.com/politics/202 l/l 0 / oath-keepers-texas-richard-mack-profile­
sheriff/. 
altoonamirror.com. "Oath Keepers Group Sets Local Summit," May 31, 2016. 
https://www.altoonamirror.com/news/local-news/2016/05/ oath-keepers-group-sets-local­
summit/. 
Oath of office, 5 U.S. Code§ 3331. Accessed March 7, 2022. 
https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/ 5/3331. 
Rogers, Keith. "Nevada Rancher Bundy Waits as FBI Probes." Las Vegas Review-Journal, 
November 9, 2014. https://www.revie\tjournal.com/news/bundy-blm/nevada-rancher­
bundy-waits-as-fbi-probes/. 
Southern Poverty Law Center. "Michael Brian Vanderboegh." Accessed November 10, 2015. 
https://www.splcenter.org/fighting-hate/extremist-files/individual/michael-brian­
vanderboegh-O. 
The Constitution of the State of New York, Article XIII § 1. Accessed March 7, 2022. 
https://dos.ny.gov/ system/files/documents/2022/01/Constitution-J anuary-1-2022. pdf. 
Trafton, Sarah. "Former Sheriff Recognized by Oath Keepers." HudsonValley360, April 15, 2021. 
https://www.hudsonvalley360.com/news/ greenecounty/former-sheriff-recognized-by-oath­
keepers/article _ 9ff caab5-0d0d-5aec-9a82-d92l772566f e.html. 
USA PATRIOT ACT, 18 U.S. Code§ 2331(5) (2001). 
Weill, Kelly. "Feds Use Right-Wing Militia's Video to Prosecute Trump Protesters." The Daily 
Beast, October 11, 2017. https://www.thedailybeast.com/feds-use-right-wing-militias-video­
to-prosecute-trump-protesters. 
Weinstein, Adam. "The NRA Twisted a Tiny Part of the Katrina Disaster to Fit Its Bigger 
Agenda." The Trace, August 31, 2015. https://www.thetrace.org/2015/08/ma-hurricane­
katrina-gun-confiscation/. 
16 