076P-R000010198_0001 
Message 
From: 
Sent: 
To: 
Subject: Haley, Vincent M. EOP/WHO [Vincent.M.Haley@who.eop.gov] 
11/6/2020 2:30:38 AM 
McEntee, John D. II EOP/WHO [John.D.McEntee2@who.eop.gov]; Huff, Daniel EOP/WHO 
[Daniel.Huff@who.eop.gov] 
Horowitz: How Republican-controlled state legislatures can rectify election fraud committed by courts and governors 
-TheBlaze 
This article makes the case. 
https://www.theblaze.com/op-ed/horowitz-state-1egislatures-rectify-election-fraud 
Horowitz: How Republican-controlled 
state legislatures can rectify election 
fraud committed by courts and 
governors 
Daniel Horowitz 
Who detern1ines the outcome of the presidential election in a given state? 
Governors? Secretaries of state or boards of election superintendents? The 
courts? Fox News' decision desk? Nope. The president wins a state when 
electors selected by state legislatures conduct a vote in their respective states on 
Dec. 14. Thus, ultimately, according to the Constitution, the state legislators 
wind up serving as the kingmakers in a disputed election. 
Endless pots of unverified mail-in ballots that often fail to meet state election 
law standards weren't created overnight at 3 a.m. on Nov. 4. They were created 
by a mix of illegal administrative actions taken by Democrat administrations in 
the key states and state and lower federal courts overriding long-standing state 
election laws. This has been going on for years, but accelerated to a fever pitch 
over the past few months. 
The Constitution, in Art. I, §4, cl. 1, gives state legislatures the power over the 
times, methods, and procedures of elections and provides no "public health 
emergency" exception that enables governors or judges to override them and 
create a new system for elections. At its core, this is why we have such post­
election chaos, and it was by design -set in motion for years by the courts and  076P-R000010198_0002 
crystalized over the past few months by using COVID-19 to remake the in­
person voting electorate into a postal ballot free-for-all, in what Justice Gorsuch 
described as the greatest judicial intervention in elections in 230 years. 
Well, now state legislatures can have their revenge and have the final say, as 
intended by the Constitution. Mark Levin reminded his audience today that state 
legislatures are the ones who choose the electors who directly vote for president 
in each state. 
In case you think this is some desperate tactic Levin has concocted because he 
doesn't like the impending results of the state ballot tallies, he has been warning 
about this for months. While everyone slept as the courts rewrote election law, 
Levin, a constitutional lawyer, warned on Sept. 18, "As in Pennsylvania, the 
Michigan legislature is controlled by the Republicans. They must meet in 
emergency session and exercise their Article II power under the federal 
Constitution and seize back control over the election system." 
In the run-up to the election, courts have allowed "late voting, namely 
submission of ballots after Election Day so long as they are postmarked before. 
In addition, a Michigan court allowed ballot-harvesting under certain 
circumstances, which appears to have occurred late at night in Wayne County. 
There has been a series of rulings or administrative decisions in numerous 
states, which are contrary to state law and in some cases federal election law, 
that enabled Democrats to upend the electoral process -putting aside questions 
of additional fraud in the early morning of Nov. 4. 
Liberals say they want every vote to count, but having votes submitted by 
insidious special-interest groups that violate the tern1s and conditions of 
absentee balloting ensures that the lawfully cast votes of individuals indeed do 
not count. We can debate the policy merits of some of these anomalous voting 
procedures, but everyone agrees that state legislatures control the process. In 
many blue states, they have already codified Democrat priorities on ballot­
harvesting, registration deadlines ( or lack thereof), and weak voter verification 
systems. But in states like Michigan, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania, there were 
laws on the books that were illegally ignored by the Democrat governors and 
the courts. 
In his 2005 book "Men in Black," Levin noted that the reason the Supreme 
Court ruling on the Florida recount in 2000 was final was not because the courts 
are supreme over the electoral process. Quite the contrary, the Supreme Court 
was merely rectifying a mistake the state court made, because Democrats were  076P-R000010198_0003 
the ones who involved the courts in the election process to begin with. But why 
did Al Gore ultimately accept the decision in Bush v. Gore? 
"The Florida legislature could have ( and, in fact, was preparing) to intervene 
and name a slate of electors if the Florida Supreme Court continued to interfere 
with the election," wrote Levin on page 170. "The legislature, which was 
controlled by the Republican Party in 2000, had absolute authority under the 
Constitution to choose Florida's members of the electoral college." 
Art. II, Sec. 1, §2 of the Constitution stipulates that "Each State shall appoint, in 
such Manner as the Legislature thereof n1ay direct" the electors to vote for 
president. The Constitution gives Congress the authority to set the date of that 
vote, which, pursuant to 3 U.S.C. §7, is the Monday after the second 
Wednesday in December of presidential election years. This year it is Dec. 14. 
Notice how the Constitution specifically gives the job of choosing electors to 
the legislature, and unlike with standard legislation, there is no shared 
jurisdiction or responsibility with the governor, much less some random state or 
federal judge. Charles Pinckney, one of the signers of the Constitution from 
South Carolina, reiterated on the Senate floor on Jan. 23, 1800, how careful the 
framers were to cut Congress out of the process. 
"The Electors are to be appointed by each State, and the whole direction as to 
the manner of their appointment is given to the State Legislatures," said 
Pinckney during a Senate debate. "Nothing was more clear ... that Congress had 
no right to meddle with it at all; as the whole was entrusted to the State 
Legislatures, they must make provision for all questions arising on the 
occasion." 
Technically, this means that state legislatures could even appoint electors and 
completely avoid or cancel out popular election ballots we have today, at least 
for the president and vice president. This was the practice in some states in the 
early days of the republic. As Justice Joseph Story wrote in his 1833 
"Commentaries on the Constitution," state legislatures choosing the electors 
themselves "has been firmly established in practice, ever since the adoption of 
the constitution, and does not now seem to admit of controversy, even if a 
suitable tribunal existed to adjudicate upon it." 
Indeed, in 1892 (McPherson v. Blacker), in upholding Michigan's practice of 
dividing the state's electors by congressional district (as done today in Maine 
and Nebraska), the Supreme Court wrote, "The legislature possesses plenary  076P-R000010198_0004 
authority to direct the manner of appointment, and might itself exercise the 
appointing power by joint ballot or concurrence of the two houses, or according 
to such mode as it designated." In Bush v. Gore, the high court reiterated that 
any state legislature ":r:nav. if it so chooses, select the electors itself." 
Obviously, none of us wants to abolish popular elections, but why would the 
Constitution even grant state legislatures such power? Well, the framers 
understood that, unlike Congress, these are the bodies that are closest and most 
accountable to the people, and unlike judges or executives (state or federal), 
they are numerous in a deliberative body and won't wield unilateral authority 
without some degree of consensus. 
By overriding the legislatures in how to properly conduct the popular elections 
that choose these presidential electors, the courts and governors have 
disenfranchised their voters. A Michigan court extended Election Dav fcw two 
weeks. A Pennsylvania court, along with the Democrat secretary of state, 
essentiallv nullified signature verification for mail-in ballots. 
Thus, if there is ample evidence of voter fraud that would be sufficient to alter 
the will of the people through this popular election, it is incumbent upon the 
state legislatures in those states to reclaim their authority over the Electoral 
College and rectify the fraud that has upended our election process. 