Pre-Decisional & Deliberative/Attorney-Client or Legal Work Product 
Georgia Proof of Concept 
The Honorable Brian P. Kemp 
Governor 
111 State Capitol 
Atlanta, Georgia 30334 
The Honorable David Ralston 
Speaker of the House 
332 State Capitol 
Atlanta, Georgia 30334 
The Honorable Butch Miller 
President Pro Tempore of the Senate 
321 State Capitol 
Atlanta, Georgia 30334 [LETTERHEAD] 
The Dep · ves 1ga mg various irregularities in the 2020 
election for P s. The Department will update you as we are 
able on inv s time we have identified significant concerns 
that may a ~--=~ the election in multiple States, including the State 
of Geor ia. eorgia' s state legislators are aware of irregularities, 
tnesses, and we have taken notice of their complaints. See, e.g., 
T ~· ----the Election Law Study Subcommittee of the Standing Senate 
mmary of Testimony from December 3, 2020 Hearing, 
ijwww.s on.com/THE FINAL%20REPORT.PDF (Dec. 17, 2020) (last visited 
Dec. 28, 2020); Debra, Heine, Georgia State Senate Report: Election Results Are 
'Untrustworthy;' Certification Should Be Rescinded, THE TENNESSEE STAR (Dec. 22, 2020), 
available at https://tennesseestar.com/2020/12/22/georgia-state-senate-report-election­
results-are-untrustworthy-certification-should-be-rescinded/ (last visited Dec. 28, 2020). 
Document ID: 0.7.2774.304144-000001 
HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000698  Pre-Decisional & Deliberative/Attorney-Client or Legal Work Product 
In light of these developments, the Department recommends that the Georgia 
General Assembly should convene in special session so that its legislators are in a positi 
to take additional testimony, receive new evidence, and deliberate on the matt 
consistent with its duties under the U.S. Constitution. Time is of the essence, as th U.S. 
Constitution tasks Congress with convening in joint session to count Elect ,_...,-:i,,._ ✓ 
certificates, see U.S. Const., art. II,§ 1, cl. 3, consider objections to any of th s, 
and decide between any competing slates of elector certificates, and 3 U.S. es 
that this session shall begin on January 6, 2021, with the Vice Presid nt over 
the session as President of the Senate. 
The Constitution mandates that Congress must set th· El eet to 
cast their ballots, which Congress did in 3 U.S.C. § 7, and w~ czurred 
on December 14, 2020. The Department believes t · rgi States, 
both a slate of electors supporting Joseph R. ff e late of electors 
supporting Donald J. Trump, gathered on tion to cast their 
ballots, and that both sets of those ballot shington, D.C., to 
be opened by Vice President Pence. a similar situation 
occurred in the 1960 election. There appeared to win the 
State of Hawaii on Election Day and resident Nixon cast their 
ballots on the day specified i C. certified by the Governor of 
Hawaii. But Senator John ~y als win Hawaii, with his Electors 
likewise casting thei · pre · ay, and that by January 6, 1961, it had 
been determined eed the winner of Hawaii, so Congress 
accordingly a for Senator Kennedy. See Jack M. Balkin, Bush 
v. Gore and olitics, 110 YALE L.J. 1407, 1421 n.55 (2001). 
oubling the current posture of a pending lawsuit in 
F ~-....- several of the voting irregularities pertaining to which 
ca the United States received the most lawfully cast votes in 
rg1a. ee . affensperger, 2020cv343255 (Fulton Cty. Super. Ct.). Despite the 
aeti0n having been filed on December 4, 2020, the trial court there has not even scheduled 
hearing on matter, making it difficult for the judicial process to consider this evidence 
and resolve these matters on appeal prior to January 6. Given the urgency of this serious 
matter, including the Fulton County litigation's sluggish pace, the Department believes 
that a special session of the Georgia General Assembly is warranted and is in the national 
interest. 
Document ID: 0.7.2774.304144-000001 
HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000699 2  Pre-Decisional & Deliberative/Attorney-Client or Legal Work Product 
The Electors Clause of the U.S. Constitution provides that "[e]ach State shall 
appoint, in such Manner as the Legislature thereof may direct," electors to cast ballots for 
President and Vice President. See U.S. Const., art. II, § 1, cl. 2. Many State Legislatures 
originally chose electors by direct appointment, but over time each State Legisla 
chosen to do so by popular vote on the day appointed by Congress in 3 U.S.C. § 
the Election Day for Members of Congress, which this year was Novem6er-, 2020. 
However, Congress also explicitly recognizes the power that State Legisl have to 
appoint electors, providing in 3 U.S.C. § 2 that "[w]henever any State e an election 
for the purpose of choosing electors, and has failed to make a choic ay prescribed 
by [3 U.S.C. § 1], the electors may be appointed on a subse a armer as 
the legislature of such State may direct." 
The purpose of the special session the Depa om ou be for the 
General Assembly to (1) evaluate the irregulari e 2 ion, including 
violations of Georgia election law judged a ai st t · a: s been enacted 
by your State's Legislature, (2) determine -t s ow which candidate 
for President won the most legal votes i v n, and (3) whether the 
election failed to make a proper an~ · -t · e candidates, such that the 
General Assembly could take ~~teve to ensure that one of the slates 
of Electors cast on Decembei; 4 ~~ e ress on January 6. 
While the s the Governor of Georgia should 
immediately ca sider this important and urgent matter, if he 
declines to view that the Georgia General Assembly has 
implied ion of the United States to call itself into special 
sidering issues pertaining to the appointment of 
Pre -~..,_ itution specifies that Presidential Electors shall be 
ap e of each State. And the Framers clearly knew how to 
· legislature and a state executive, so their disparate choices to 
to one eg1s a. res), the other (executive), or both, must be respected.1 Additionally, 
1 See, e.g., U.S.C., art. IV,§ 4 ("The United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union a Republican 
Form of Government, and shall protect each of them against Invasion; and on Application of the Legislature, 
QI: of the Executive (when the Legislature cannot be convened) against domestic Violence.") (emphases added); 
id. art. VI ("The Senators and Representatives before mentioned, and the Members of the several State 
Legislatures, and all executive and judicial Officers, both of the United States and of the several States, shall be 
bound by Oath or Affirmation, to support this Constitution .... ") (emphasis added); id. XVII amend. 
("When vacancies happen in the representation of any State in the Senate, the executive authority of such State 
shall issue writs of election to fill such vacancies: Provided, That the legislature of any State may empower 
Document ID: 0.7.2774.304144-000001 
HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000700 3  Pre-Decisional & Deliberative/Attorney-Client or Legal Work Product 
when the Constitution intends to refer to laws enacted by the Legislature and signed by 
the Governor, the Constitution refers to it simply as the "State." See, e.g., U.S. Const., art. 
I,§ 8 ("[Congress may] exercise exclusive Legislation in all Cases whatsoever, over such 
District (not exceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession of particular States, anti the 
Acceptance of Congress, become the Seat of the Government of the United Sta. es, a d t0 
exercise like Authority over all Places purchased by the Consent of the Leg;islatur_e of the 
State in which the Same shall be, for the Erection of Forts, Magazines, Alrsenals, dock­
Yards and other needful Buildings") (emphasis added) (distinguishing between the 
"State," writ large, and the "Legislature of the State"). The C · · n l o makes clear 
when powers are forbidden to any type of state actor. See, e. ., 10, cl. 
1 ("No State shall enter into any Treaty, Alliance, or Confe , ·, this 
cannot mean that a State Governor could enter into such a 'Fr te egislature 
could not, or vice versa. 
Clearly, however, some provisions tl to tures -and there 
the Framers must be taken at their wor h Article V, which 
provides that a proposed Amendment ti ted "when ratified by 
the Legislatures of three fourths oft e al State ," w IC, IS done by joint resolution 
or concurrent resolution. Supreme rece<Zlent ma es clear that the Governor has 
no role in that process, an · -· tu al is not necessary for ratification. 
See, e.g., Coleman v. Mille H) oo, Article II requires action only by 
the Legislature in n <:;:oFLgress in 3 U.S.C. § 2 likewise recognizes 
this Constitution 
Thefo, ned that the Electors Clause "leaves it to the 
legislatu e~c u e method" of appointing Electors, vesting the 
Le · ____ ,.., it,h "t sible power of determination." McPherson v. Blecker, 
14 · 7 (1892 power is "placed absolutely and wholly with legislatures." Id. 
at 34-S3-5 (emp~::Yd€'a). In the most recent disputed Presidential election to reach the 
Suweme Court,~IQ.ooo election, the Supreme Court went on to hold that when a State 
Legislature appoints Presidential Electors -which it can do either through statute or 
through direct action-the Legislature is not acting "solely under the authority given by 
the people of the State, but by virtue of a direct grant of authority made under Art. II, § 
1, cl. 2, of the United States Constitution." Bush v. Palm Beach Cty. Canvassing Bd., 531 U.S. 
the executive thereof to make temporary appointments until the people fill the vacancies by election as the 
legislature may direct.") (emphases added). 
Document ID: 0.7.2774.304144-000001 
HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000701 4  Pre-Decisional & Deliberative/Attorney-Client or Legal Work Product 
70, 76 (2000). The State Legislature's authority to appoint Electors is "plenary." Bush v. 
Gore, 531 U.S. 98, 104 (2000) (per curiam). And a State Legislature cannot lose that 
authority on account of enacting statutes to join the National Election. "Whateve 
provisions may be made by statute, or by the state constitution, to choose electors oy, the 
people, there is no doubt of the right of the legislature to resume the power a~¾f m , 
for it can neither be taken away nor abdicated." McPherson, 146 U.S. at 125 '' 
The Georgia General Assembly accordingly must have inherent authority granted 
by the U.S. Constitution to come into session to appoint Electors, regardless of any 
purported limit imposed by the state constitution or re uiring the 
Governor's approval. The "powers actually granted [b st be 
such as are expressly given, or given by necessary i un er-s essee, 
14 U.S. (1 Wheat.) 304, 326 (1816). And the pri lication arises 
because our Constitution is not prolix and thus doe e specification 
of its powers, or to declare the means by which e carried into 
execution." Id. Otherwise, in a situatio · · o re aware that the 
Legislature of his State was inclined t ting a candidate for 
President that the Governor oppose , · e overn art that appointment by 
refusing to call the Legislature into session b ' e next President had been duly 
elected. The Constitutio mpowe officials to supersede the state 
legislature in this fashi Q 
Therefore sion by the Governor or by its own inherent 
authority, t s the Georgia General Assembly to convene in 
specials matter of overriding national importance. 
~~ Q /,,0 Jeffrey A. Rosen 
' Acting Attorney General Richard Donoghue 
Acting Deputy Attorney 
General 
5 
Document ID: 0.7.2774.304144-000001 
HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000702 Jeffrey Bossert Clark 
(Acting) Assistant Attorney 
General 
Civil Division 