From: 
To: 
Sent: 
Subject: Vince Haley <vince@vincehaley .com> on behalf of Vince Haley <vince@vincehaley.com> 
Newt Gingrich; Randy Evans 
07-Nov-20 1 :05:41 PM 
Electoral College Research -role of state legislatures in choosing electors 
Below are Federalist Paper quotes about state legislature authority to choose electors for 
President. It's my firm conviction that must not put our ultimate fate in the John Robert's 
court (that's a horrible bet). The Supreme Court for one thing doesn't have as much 
legitimacy as it did in 2000. It cannot sustain another Bush v Gore. 
We must ultimately appeal to the role of the state legislatures. Moreover the appeal to state 
legislatures allows us to speak in language that people can understand (not legal jargon) 
and not be limited in the nature of our appeal. 
The courts are great for delay. 
If we have the nerve to whip this into a battle of tribes, the American tribe can beat their corrupt tribe. If we 
take intensity to the nth degree, the state legislators will have to stick with the America tribe. 
So the left and deep state can stuff ballot boxes and lie. Well we have power too. We have the power to tell 
the trnth and succeed via state legislatures and the ultimate political check in the House. 
Madison in Federalist 45: "The State governments may be regarded as constituent and essential parts of the 
federal government; whilst the latter is nowise essential to the operation or organization of the former. 
Without the intervention of the State legislatures, the President of the United States cannot be elected at 
all. They must in all cases have a great share in his appointment, and will, perhaps, in most cases, of 
themselves determine it." 
Hamilton in Federalist 68: "It was also peculiarly desirable to afford as little opportunity as possible to 
tumult and disorder. This evil was not least to be dreaded in the election of a magistrate, who was to have 
so important an agency in the administration of the government as the President of the United States. But 
the precautions which have been so happily concerted in the system under consideration, promise an 
effectual security against this mischief. The choice of SEVERAL, to form an intermediate body of electors, will 
be much less apt to convulse the community with any extraordinary or violent movements, than the choice 
of ONE who was himself to be the final object of the public wishes. And as the electors, chosen in each 
State, are to assemble and vote in the State in which they are chosen, this detached and divided situation 
will expose them much less to heats and ferments, which might be communicated from them to the people, 
than if they were all to be convened at one time, in one place. Nothing was more to be desired than that 
every practicable obstacle should be opposed to cabal, intrigue, and corruption ." 
VMH-00003041 