1 
2 
3 
4 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE 
5 JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL, 
6 U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
7 WASHINGTON, D.C. 
8 
9 
10 
11 DEPOSITION OF: HENRYTARRIO 
12 
13 
14 
15 Friday, February 4, 2022 
16 
17 
18 
19 Washington, D.C. 
20 The deposition in the above matter was held via Webex, commencing at 10:12 
21 a.m. 
22 Present: Representatives Aguilar and Lofgren. 1  2 
1 Appearances: 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 For the SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE 
7 THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL: 
8 
9 INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
10 PROFESSIONAL STAFF 
11 RESEARCHER 
12 INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
13 CHIEF INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
14 CHIEF CLERK 
15 RESEARCHER 
16 SENIOR COUNSEL 
17 INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
18 PARLIAMENTARIAN 
19 INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
20 SENIOR TECHNICAL ADVISOR 
21 , SENIOR INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL  3 
1 For the WITNESS: 
2 
3 DAN HU LL, ESQ. 
4 HULL MCGUIRE PC 
5 888 17th Street NW, Suite 1000 
6 Washington, D.C. 20006  1 
2 
3 Let's go on the record at 10:12 a.m. eastern. 
Good morning. This is the deposition of Henry Tarrio, conducted by the House 
4 Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, 
5 pursuant to House Resolution 503. 4 
6 Mr. Hull, I'd like to just get through the introductory script and then talk about the 
7 things that we were just talking about. Is that okay with you? 
8 
9 You're on mute. 
Mr. Hull. Yes, sir. 
11 This will be a staff-led deposition, though members may choose to ask questions. 
12 At this time, I'd ask the witness to please state your full name and spell your last 
13 name for the record. 
14 The Witness. First name's Henry, last name's Tarrio. The spelling of that is 
15 H-e-n-r-y for the first name and T-a-r-r-i-o for the last name. 
16 Thank you, Mr. Tarrio. 
17 My name is and I'm an investigative counsel with the select 
18 committee. With me from the select committee staff are 
19 investigative counsel; senior counsel and senior advisor;-
20 -senior technical advisor;_, investigative counsel; 
21 
22 professional staff member; 
investigative counsel; and investigative counsel; 
parliamentarian. 
23 In addition, there are the following --well, I'll note for the record that there are no 
24 members currently in attendance. 
25 Under House deposition rules, neither committee members nor staff may discuss  5 
1 the substance of the testimony today until and unless the committee approves release. 
2 You and your counsel will have an opportunity to review the transcript. 
3 Note that, under House rules, you may have your attorney present, but counsel 
4 for other individuals or attorneys from other government agencies may not be, and 
5 therefore are not, present. 
6 I'd like to note for the record that what has been previously marked as exhibit 1 is 
7 the select committee's January 25th, 2022, subpoena for Mr. Henry Tarrio in both his 
8 individual capacity and in his capacity as chairman of the Proud Boys. The House 
9 deposition rules are included in this exhibit. 
10 At this time, could counsel please state their name for the record? 
11 Mr. Hull. My name is Dan Hull. I'm counsel for Mr. Tarrio and in his personal 
12 capacity only, not for any position he may have had in the past with the Proud Boys. So 
13 this is just part --the first half, I guess, A, of the subpoena. 
14 Thank you, Mr. Hull. 
15 There is an official reporter transcribing the record of this deposition. Please 
16 wait until each question is completed before you begin your response, and we'll try to 
17 wait until your response is complete before we ask our next question. The stenographer 
18 cannot record nonverbal responses such as shaking your head, so it's important that you 
19 answer each question with an audible, verbal response. 
20 We ask that you provide complete answers based off of the best of your 
21 recollection. If a question is not clear, please ask for clarification. If you don't know 
22 the answer, please simply say so. 
23 You may only refuse to answer a question to preserve a privilege recognized by 
24 the select committee. Such privileges include the Fifth Amendment privilege against 
25 compulsory self-incrimination. If you refuse to answer a question based on a privilege,  6 
1 staff may either proceed with the deposition or seek a ruling from the chairman on the 
2 objection. If the chairman overrules such an objection, you are required to answer the 
3 question. 
4 I also want to remind you that it's unlawful to deliberately provide false 
5 information to Congress. Providing false information could result in criminal penalties 
6 for perjury and/or providing false statements, including under 18 U.S.C. Section 1001, 
7 which makes it illegal to provide a false statement in a congressional investigation. 
8 That being said, to be clear, this is indeed a congressional investigation, not a 
9 criminal investigation. This proceeding is separate and distinct from any current 
10 criminal proceeding by the United States Department of Justice. 
11 Do you understand? 
Mr. Hull. We understand that. 
Thank you. 12 
13 
14 Logistically, please let us know if you need any breaks. I would simply ask that, if 
15 you need a break, you answer the question that's pending before we take the break. 
16 Depending on how long we go, we may take a bit of a longer break for lunch. 
17 If you don't understand a question, please simply ask me to repeat it or clarify it. 
18 We're not trying to trick you here, so if there's a question you don't understand, I'm more 
19 than happy to clarify it. 
20 Finally, I'll note that I'll lead the discussion for the first half; I will turn it over to 
21 one of my colleagues for the second half; but, throughout, occasionally 
22 other staffers or even a member may join the discussion. 
23 And because this deposition is under oath, would you please raise your right hand 
24 to be sworn by the court reporter --excuse me, the congressional reporter? 
25 The Reporter. Do you solemnly declare and affirm, under the penalty of perjury,  7 
1 that the testimony you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing 
2 but the truth? 
3 
4 The Witness. I do. 
I will also just note that 
5 member, is also on the line, as well as chief clerk professional staff 
6 Mr. Hull, I understand that you wanted to discuss some matters at the beginning 
7 of the deposition, so I'm happy to turn it over to you. 
8 Mr. Hull. There's not too much to say. I said off the record, and I'll say it again, 
9 that Mr. Tarrio has decided to assert the Fifth Amendment, which, you know, protects 
10 him from making himself be a witness against himself that may lead to criminal charges. 
11 And I think that we have come to a point, you know, in this whole journey, I guess 
12 since about December --November 30th, when I first got involved --I think that's when 
13 he was served; I was involved the next day --that that makes sense now, because we had 
14 some --he had some apprehensions about where this is going, and I think he has some 
15 apprehensions about the committee, which anybody could have, but I think he has 
16 particular apprehensions, as do I, about the way the committee has managed his 
17 subpoena and getting his testimony. 
18 And we have --I don't need to belabor it, make a speech about it, but I think we've 
19 kind of gone out of our way to put Mr. Tarrio in a position where he can be prepared for a 
20 useful, informative deposition where he can --there are some things that he would like to 
21 tell about what happened and what didn't happen on January 6th, leading up to it. As 
22 you know, he was not in Washington that day. 
23 But we just think that, based on what's happened in the last 2 months, that we're 
24 not --we're just not in a position to --we wanted to be in a position where we could 
25 prepare for this the right way.  8 
1 By not having --I think not having the deposition in jail, especially in connection 
2 with --not in connection with anything that this committee is really concerned with about 
3 January 6th, I think that was sort of a no-brainer. 
4 And I think, after that, the notion was that we would give you guys 4 hours. 
5 think originally I wanted 2, and then I said 4 is fine. That was going to be in jail, I 
6 understand that, but we would have done that again, the notion being that you can learn 
7 some things while we get our documents, which are not available to us --I'm not even 
8 sure what documents are on there. Mr. Tarrio hasn't had, as you know, his devices for 
9 over a year. 
10 But the notion was, you know, he gets out of jail, which has happened 3 weeks 
11 ago, he looks around for documents when we can do it, and that we could get ready for a 
12 deposition makes some sense. And if we didn't have --I think in one of my emails I said 
13 that it would've been nice to --I said mid-February, something like that. The emails are 
14 what they are, and I'd like to have them all, all the ones from November 30th until now, 
15 you know, in this record. 
16 But we were at one point very happy to provide the committee with informal, 
17 truthful, helpful information which we think the committee would like to have had. 
18 just don't see that as making much sense anymore, as I said off the record. 
19 And, you know, I don't have to go into it, and I don't want to talk any more about 
20 this. I just want it to be clear that this is, from my standpoint and I think Mr. Tarrio's 
21 standpoint as well, a, you know, classic Fifth Amendment sort of situation we're in. 
22 And we're not --I think we've been cooperative. In fact, we've been proactive. 
23 We just don't like the notion of being pushed to do things before we're ready, before we 
24 know what documents say or if they're even out there. And I think that's fair, and I 
25 think that's fair to clients.  9 
1 So, that said --and, you know, I could say more, but there's lots of case law on 
2 this. And I think that the one I like in particular is one called U.S. v. Reiner, which 
3 factually is a Supreme Court case that was decided about 20 years ago, 2001, which 
4 doesn't have facts like this --it was a review of an Ohio supreme court decision, four 
5 pages --but it does discuss the parts of the Fifth Amendment that are important to 
6 people who are innocent and how they should use it and how they --you know, how 
7 everyone is entitled to use it if they have an apprehension about the questions they're 
8 being asked, where they're reading and they think they're in ambiguous circumstances. 
9 And I think it's an understatement, based on my experience and Mr. Tarrio's 
10 experience in this committee, to say that this is --it's very ambiguous. We're not quite 
11 sure where you're all coming from. You're all nice people. You know, you have good 
12 intentions. But we thought this was a very heavy-handed way of coming at him. 
13 We did our homework on you. I wish you had done a little bit more homework 
14 on Mr. Tarrio so that you knew that he could have been helpful and given you 4 hours' 
15 worth of information you could go off on until he got ready to have a proper deposition, 
16 but that didn't happen. 
17 I understand these things do happen, but I don't want to be here very long today. 
18 I've spent a lot of time trying to make this thing work. It didn't work. And I need to get 
19 on to --as Mr. Tarrio does as well --on to other things. I can't invest any more time in 
20 trying to cooperate with a committee that wants us to cooperate in a particular, special 
21 way. 
22 And I think you guys can do that. I think you have that kind of power. The 
23 subpoena power you have is enormous, but I think it needs to be used, you know, 
24 carefully. You have problems enforcing things. I mean, being a congressional 
25 investigator is --you know, you don't have a lot of ways to get things done quickly if  10 
1 people aren't cooperative. You've got some remedies; you have some options. 
2 But I just think that this is not a good situation for my client. He's clean as a 
3 whistle in terms of, you know, January-6th-related charges right now, and I'd like to keep 
4 him that way. 
5 So, you know, I'll leave it at that, unless you have a question. I really didn't want 
6 to take up that much time. But I think you get the idea, and I think you understand what 
7 I was saying before the deposition, that we feel uncomfortable doing anything but 
8 asserting the Fifth Amendment. 
9 That said, make a record, do what you need to do. I don't think you're going to 
10 hear a lot of answers to questions from Mr. Tarrio. And if he forgets, I will object, not to 
11 form, but say, "Object based on a privilege," and say, "Don't answer it, sir." And I, you 
12 know, hate to do it, but I think that makes sense for my client. 
13 Thanks, Mr. Hull. You know, I appreciate that you gave us that 
14 recitation. I would disagree with the characterization of the last couple of months, but 
15 you requested while we were on the record --while we were off the record, that we add 
16 our email correspondence to the record, which I'm more than happy to do. 
17 I do have one question, which you raised prior, which is that you're just 
18 representing Mr. Tarrio in his personal capacity, correct? 
19 
20 
21 Mr. Hull. Yes. 
I've got my engineer here. 
Yes. And I think that was made clear early on in the emails and in the 
22 conversations that you and I had. But, yes. And I would --
23 ~ Who is representing Mr. Tarrio in his Proud Boys capacity? 
24 Mr. Hull. Just --the only person that even falls into that category would be Jason 
25 Van Dyke, who I don't know and I don't think Mr. Tarrio's had much contact with for a  11 
1 while. 
2 But, no, this is just a --this is just a in-personal-capacity representation and always 
3 has been, and I think I've been clear about that. 
4 I appreciate that. I just want to be clear. So is Mr. Van Dyke 
5 representing Mr. Tarrio in his capacity as chairman of the Proud Boys? 
6 Mr. Hull. No. No. Or not that I --excuse me --not that I know of. I mean, 
7 you'd have to ask him that. 
8 Okay. 
9 Well --I'm sorry --Mr. Tarrio is sitting right there. Could he tell 
10 us whether or not he's --
11 
12 
13 The Witness. I think --
--representing him in his chairman capacity? 
The Witness. I think that there's a confusion. I think what --and correct me if 
14 I'm wrong --what you're saying is that those questions would be better off asking to 
15 Jason Lee Van Dyke, not that he's representing me. 
16 Mr. Hull. No, no, he's not --he's not representing --the Proud Boys aren't as 
17 discrete, if you will, of a --there's not an organization that we might expect. 
18 There was, for a time, some articles that were written by a Proud Boy, who was 
19 also a lawyer, named Jason Van Dyke --I believe he's a Proud Boy --in Texas. But that 
20 document, that legal architecture, while it was followed culturally in some ways and 
21 tracks some things that they did, I think it did not --it was not used for a very long time, 
22 based on my conversations with Mr. Tarrio. 
23 And, yeah, I didn't mean to be unclear about that. But, no, I don't know if --I 
24 don't know who's representing the Proud Boys. I know they keep getting sued, you 
25 know, in various civil lawsuits, and it's never really been clear who the, quote, "leader" or,  12 
1 you know, "el jefe" is of the Proud Boys. 
2 I can't tell you --and I think you know this,_ from being on Telegram, that 
3 to the extent he had chairman or spokesman responsibilities, either self-imposed or by 
4 claim, he stepped down from those a couple days ago and is no longer --you know, he 
5 supports the group, is a Proud Boy, but he's not doing anything in an official capacity. 
6 He has other projects now. And I think he's --I think there was an appointment, not by 
7 him, but somebody else has taken over. I don't even know who it is, but Mr. --
8 
9 Does Mr. Tarrio know who has taken over? 
The Witness. No. I don't think it's --I'm really --I'm not involved with that 
10 anymore. 
11 Mr. Tarrio, I just wanted to note that, to the extent that you're 
12 speaking, you are on the record, and it's difficult for the court reporter to hear you, so if 
13 you wouldn't mind just speaking up. 
14 The Witness. At this point, no, I don't know who's the spokesperson or even if 
15 there's a spokesperson. 
16 Understood. 
17 And do you have any knowledge or documents at all with regards to the items in 
18 Schedule Bin your capacity as someone who held office or was a chairman or a 
19 spokesman, or however you want to call it, with the Proud Boys? 
20 And, to be clear, I'm asking you for the portion of the subpoena that Mr. Hull does 
21 not represent you for. So the portion of the subpoena that is regarding your capacity 
22 with the Proud Boys, do you have any knowledge or information or documents relevant 
23 to that portion of the subpoena separate and apart from what Mr. Hull is representing 
24 you for in your personal capacity? 
25 Mr. Hull. I'm just going to object to the form of the question and also to the  13 
1 notion that you can kind of conflate these things at this point. He is not in any 
2 circumstance going to answer questions about part B of the subpoena. We've made 
3 that clear --
4 Well, no, no, hold on. Let's be very clear about this. You just 
5 made very clear that you don't represent him for part B of the subpoena. 
6 Mr. Hull. Well, I --no, I made very clear that I represent him in his personal 
7 capacity, and I think everyone has known that all along. That's not, like --that's not a 
8 secret. 
9 And I'm not disputing that. So my question is, for the part of the 
10 subpoena that you do not represent him for, does he have information that is responsive 
11 to that subpoena? 
12 Mr. Hull. I think he's told you that he does not and could not. 
13 
14 
15 
16 I don't understand that. Could you clarify? 
Mr. Hull. Well --
He could not what? 
Mr. Hull. There's a reason I'm representing him in his personal capacity 
17 beyond --it wasn't merely a matter of delegation of duties. It's kind of a function of the 
18 way probably Proud Boys is set up. 
19 But it's not --it's just not an issue. We're not answering questions about Proud 
20 Boys as an organization, and we never were. The focus here was on Mr. Tarrio, and I 
21 think you've all known that. 
22 And I'm not even sure --I think --to be honest with you, I don't think I --he had 
23 the whole subpoena, but I don't think I ever asked him to look at those documents. 
24 Why would I? He --
25 Because he's under subpoena from the chairman to look at them.  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 I mean, let me just --
Mr. Hull. No, no. Stop a second -­
Hold on, Mr. Hull. 
Mr. Hull. --right there. He looked at --he looked at --
One moment, Mr. Hull. You mentioned earlier that you did not 
6 understand, quote/unquote, "where we were going with this," so let me be very clear 
7 why I'm asking these questions. 
8 To the extent that Mr. Tarrio would like to assert the Fifth Amendment, that is 
9 obviously his right. But to the extent that he was ever an officer or represented the 
10 Proud Boys in any official capacity, his ability to assert the Fifth Amendment over items 
11 that are regarding his official role with the Proud Boys is obviously different than 
12 regarding his individual capacity. 14 
13 So we need to understand which categories of information he has that fall under 
14 that second piece of the subpoena and which fall under the first. 
15 Mr. Hull. On December 3rd, on a Friday, you were --or at least most of 
16 it ---was added. -was added. And it was the --we had Friday, the 3rd. 
17 And I wrote you a letter about the reading on the 6th after it happened. 
18 I made very clear before that meeting and in that meeting that what he was 
19 trying --he was responding to and trying to give you an idea, while he was still in jail, of 
20 what documents he might have under A. I never even talked to him about B. I didn't 
21 need to. It was always understood. I mean, it wasn't an issue. 
22 So --and we did --Mr. Tarrio took notes, gave them to me. And I gave, if you 
23 will, in quotations, "proffers" of things that --he was, you know, making some 
24 conjectures about what he had might have or might not have, and I was trying to be 
25 helpful.  15 
1 And we even talked about, you know --we talked about probably half of the 
2 documents that were discussed on Schedule A, until at one point I think the meeting kind 
3 of went south. And I'm not sure how it happened after an hour, but it did. And I had 
4 more documents to talk about. But B was never --it was never on the schedule. 
5 
6 And I would object to any more questions about it. 
Well, I mean --well, let me just say a couple things here. To the 
7 extent that you keep saying it was never an issue, I mean, it was part of the subpoena, so 
8 it's very much an issue. And, second of all, I am not sure how you're objecting on his 
9 behalf to a set of questions which you've already said you don't represent him for. 
10 But let me just try this in a more basic way so I can make sure that we're not 
11 fighting over something that we don't need to fight over. 
12 Did Mr. Tarrio ever --well, could Mr. Tarrio at least explain what his official 
13 position was with the Proud Boys over the course of his time with the Proud Boys? That 
14 might decide or obviate the need for us to fuss over Schedule B, if he never had an official 
15 position. 
16 So tell me the information about that. 
17 
18 
19 The Witness. Can I talk to you? 
Can I sidebar him? 
Yes. Feel free to turn your microphone off and confer with your 
20 counsel. 
21 [Discussion off the record.] 
22 
23 
24 Mr. Hull. Back on the record. 
And that's my --that's something I knew and didn't disclose, or didn't remember. 
Proud Boys International was a short-lived organization, very short-lived. And I 
25 don't think Mr. Tarrio ever had anything to do with it. It was a --it certainly reflected  16 
1 some things about Proud Boys, but it was a Jason Van Dyke production. 
2 And, you know, I don't know if he's the person you should go to or not, but Proud 
3 Boys International is a fairly limited thing, and I think that's who the subpoena goes to. 
4 And I'm sorry if I'd forgotten that. But we established early on that we wouldn't 
5 be --that was sort of, you know, taken out or grafted out of the subpoena, just not 
6 something we were going to deal with. 
7 Well, with all due respect, Mr. Hull, I don't know that it's your 
8 decision about whether or not you get to graft that out of the subpoena. 
9 He has been subpoenaed. He is under a legal obligation to respond to questions 
10 regarding his capacity --about which he has knowledge in his capacity as an officeholder, 
11 a chairman, a president, whatever position he held with the Proud Boys. And that 
12 information and knowledge is separate and distinct from the personal capacity 
13 information over which you are asserting Fifth Amendment privilege. 
14 Mr. Hull. I want to make clear that it was understood from the very beginning 
15 that we were not responding to that part of the subpoena because it was a relatively 
16 narrow organization that Mr. Tarrio, you know, had known about but was not involved 
17 with and it was apparently very short-lived. And, again, I apologize for neglecting to 
18 remember that. 
19 But we --I think you're wrong. I don't think he has to --I don't think he read it. 
20 I think I told him not to read it. It's not --after we discussed what it was, Proud Boys 
21 International was or what it wasn't --there's some confusion, apparently, about legal 
22 entities that the Proud Boys ever took. And there was one other legal entity that was 
23 around for maybe 30 days, something like that. 
24 So --and, no --I understand your question, what you're saying, but I'm a little 
25 surprised that you would come here and think that that was in play. I think we made it  17 
1 pretty clear that that's not --it wasn't a matter of who was representing who; it was a 
2 matter of the fact that the organization, Proud Boys International, was short-lived and, 
3 you know --
4 But, Mr. Hull, you certainly understand there's a difference 
5 between saying "there is no responsive information, and therefore that is why we're not 
6 responding" and saying "we're going to not respond because it didn't exist for that long." 
7 Those are two different things. 
8 So can you clarify, does --
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 Mr. Hull. No, no --
--Mr. Tarrio have information that's responsive or not? 
Mr. Hull. I think it --
Mr. Hull, please let me finish my question for the court reporter. 
Mr. Hull. Of course. 
This doesn't have to be complicated. Does he have responsive 
15 information or does he not, yes --
16 
17 
18 Mr. Hull. He does not. 
--orno? 
Mr. Hull. He does not. 
19 And I don't recall --I know there's no recording of the February 3rd meeting, but 
20 we only went over A. We understood we were only going over A. I think in my 
21 conversation with that's --it was just --you say I can't graft it out or take it out. 
22 That was the --it wasn't a matter of representation. It was that Mr. Tarrio had --
23 
24 
25 The Witness. I put -­
Mr. Hull. Huh? 
The Witness. --the application -- 1 Mr. Hull. It was not a --it was a short-lived project. And it was, you know, 
2 Jason Van Dyke --in fact, Jason Van Dyke, I think, was the head of the Proud Boys for a 
3 while. 
4 Is that right? 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 The Witness. That's correct. 
Mr. Hull. So I apologize if I made it confusing, but this deposition was --it was 
pretty clear it was never going to be about Proud Boys International. 
Well, I'll make clear for the record, which will be in exhibit 1, as 
mentioned, that the subpoena that we issued, that we reissued to 
10 Mr. Tarrio last week, had Schedule Bin it, I believe. So it was never, from our 
11 perspective, off the table. 
12 But if I understand you saying for the record, here, now, that Mr. Tarrio has no 
13 responsive information to Schedule B, is that accurate? 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 Mr. Hull. Go ahead. 
The Witness. Okay. Give me one second. 
Okay. 
[Discussion off the record.] 
Mr. Hull. Can I --let me --we just had a conversation about something that we 
19 had gone over when the subpoena first came out. 
20 And, by the way, you know, I don't think it changed the game that you, like, sent 
21 the same subpoena with B. I asked for a subpoena, because you kept talking about 
22 making accommodations and all kinds of odd metaphysics like that. 18 
23 What I'd like to do is show him B, and he's going to show me something, and then 
24 we'll come back. It will just take a few minutes. Is that okay? We'll go to our 
25 breakout room.  19 
1 - I mean, I think that's fine. I would appreciate, though, if during 
2 that time you could discuss, A, whether he has any responsive information; B, what 
3 efforts, if any, he made to look for responsive information; and, C, what 
4 officeholder --what offices he held or what roles he held in response --in relation to that 
5 organization. 
6 Is that clear, those three things? 
7 Mr. Hull. Yes, ma'am. 
8 
9 
10 
11 The Witness. Wait. Say it again. 
Mr. Hull. Repeat it, please. 
The Witness. No, no, I'm saying --
Yeah. I'm asking that during the break that you all talk about 
12 three things: one, whether he has any information responsive to Schedule B; two, what, 
13 if anything, did he do to determine whether he had any information responsive to 
14 Schedule B; and, three, what offices, if any, he held for any legal entity of the Proud Boys. 
15 The Witness. We got that. 
16 Thank you. 
17 For the court reporters, we can just briefly go off the record while they're 
18 conferring. Thank you. 
19 
20 
21 [Discussion off the record.] 
Mr. Hull. Back on the record. Are you guys back? 
One moment. We did ask the court reporters to go off the 
22 record, so we need to make sure they're back on the record. 
23 Okay. Great. Thank you. 
24 Go ahead, Mr. Hull. 
25 Mr. Hull. We just looked at the language of the --of B. And I think that the  20 
1 request is --let me make sure I got it right for you, --is, "In accordance with the 
2 attached definitions and instructions, you, Henry Tarrio (also known as 'Enrique Tarrio'), 
3 in your capacity as Chairman of Proud Boys International, L.L.C." --and the reason that 
4 two of your questions weren't dealt with is he never had that role. He was never 
5 chairman of Proud Boys International, LLC. 
6 And I think that would help explain why, you know, that was a non-issue. And it 
7 was early on, because I had asked him about it. And it's a little bit just the phrasing in 
8 the subpoena. But that's a special entity that he was never the chairman of. 
9 I hope that answers your question. 
10 Has Mr. Tarrio been an officeholder for any legal entity or any 
11 unincorporated entity associated with the Proud Boys? 
12 The Witness. One second. 
13 Well, actually, hold on, before you go off the mike for that, can you 
14 clarify, did you hold any position with Proud Boys International, LLC, like, other than 
15 chairman? Is it president? Or any position at all with that organization? 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 Mr. Hull. The answer's no. 
Okay. Thank you. 
And we'll let you go on mute to talk about 
[Discussion off the record.] question. 
The Witness. _, can you repeat your question? I'm sorry. 
Sure. Have you held --have you been an officeholder of any 
22 legal entity or any unincorporated entity associated with the Proud Boys? 
23 [Discussion off the record.] 
24 Mr. Hull. The answer --we understand your question. The answer's no, 
25 - 1 So Mr. Tarrio has never held an office of any organization 
2 associated with the Proud Boys? 
3 
4 
5 The Witness. Hold on. 
[Discussion off the record.] 
Mr. Hull. Here. Here. I think we can say this. He did enter into joint 21 
6 ventures and maybe one partnership with other people who happened to be Proud Boys 
7 but it wasn't Proud Boys-related. They were people that he knew and was close to. 
8 And so, you know, the answer --the direct answer to the question's no, but he did 
9 for a time have a couple of organizations that were with Proud Boys. And I think 
10 that's --I think that's a no, but he wanted me to --wanted to make that clear. So --
11 I appreciate that. I'm just trying to understand, because you've 
12 been widely reported as, quote, "chairman" of the Proud Boys previously, and I want to 
13 know what that means. 
14 
15 
16 
17 The Witness. Do you want me to answer? 
Mr. Hull. You can answer that one. 
The Witness. Okay. 
So you guys asked specifically about, like, the legal entity. We've never really 
18 even been a legal entity. 
19 Well, just to be clear, I asked about legal entities and 
20 unincorporated entities. 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 The Witness. Oh, in your question. 
Yes. 
The Witness. Okay. 
Mr. Hull. And we answered that there were Proud Boys who -­
No -- 22 
1 Mr. Hull. --were involved in businesses together, but they weren't, you know, 
2 Proud Boys organizations. I think the answer is --
3 I understand. I was asking about both legal entities, which you 
4 seem to have answered, and unincorporated entities. 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 The Witness. Can we sidebar? 
Sure. 
[Discussion off the record.] 
Mr. Hull. Back on the record. Mr. Tarrio can answer that one. 
The Witness. So we've already gone through the legal entities, and we're really 
10 trying to get over this little hump quickly. 
11 Yeah. So how the Proud Boys really is is you could --it's a whole bunch of 
12 different people, right? And I claimed chairman status because a group of friends of 
13 mine got together and they became what --something to the legal entity that happened 
14 is, there was a set of bylaws in that legal entity that we did kind of agree with. We 
15 were --it was never in a legal capacity. As a matter of fact, we wanted to stay away 
16 from that. 
17 And then eight of those people became what we considered the elders of the 
18 Proud Boys, and they voted me in as the chairman of the Proud Boys. Half of people 
19 that claimed to be Proud Boys hated the idea of it and didn't take it in, so --but I took 
20 that title for myself. 
21 Understood. And I think you mentioned that you stepped down 
22 from that position a couple days ago? 
23 
24 
25 The Witness. Yes. 
When was that? 
The Witness. Wednesday night.  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 Got it. 
And you mentioned the elders. Who are they? 
Mr. Hull. Do you even know? 
The Witness. Hold on one second. 
Sure. 
[Discussion off the record.] 
The Witness. So, on the advice of my counsel, I'm taking the Fifth Amendment 
8 on that question. 
9 Okay. And just so I understand, so you're taking the Fifth 
10 Amendment to the question of who are the members of the elders chapter? 
The Witness. That's correct. 
Mr. Hull. Absolutely. 23 
11 
12 
13 Okay. And that's because you have a --I just want to make sure 
14 we're on the same page. That's because you have a good-faith belief that the answer to 
15 that question could damage your ability to defend against potential criminal charges? 
16 
17 
18 The Witness. Yes. 
Understood. 
You know, you mentioned that you were the chairman. Can you tell us a little bit 
19 about what that meant in terms of responsibilities? 
20 The Witness. On the advice of counsel, I'm taking the Fifth Amendment on that 
21 question. 
22 Okay. Understood. 
23 I mean, I understand that Mr. Hull said at the outset that you would be invoking 
24 the Fifth for many of these questions. And I don't want this to be a repetitive or 
25 redundant process. We're not here to unnecessarily burden you. But just so we  24 
1 understand the scope of what you would be objecting to, I think we plan to proceed with 
2 asking many questions and would ask that you state your objection, if there is one, to the 
3 questions, and we can proceed like that. 
4 But --
5 ---■---
6 --I see that - has come off mute. 
7 Thank you. I wanted to ask one question before we got there. 
8 Mr. Tarrio, for the time period that we were just talking about, where you were 
9 the self-described chairman and there was a group of elders and whatnot, from up until 
10 2 days ago when you stepped down, when did you become chairman? What time 
11 period are we talking about? 
12 And this is to help us understand the Fifth Amendment claim. That's why I'm 
13 asking. 
14 [Discussion off the record.] 
15 
16 
17 The Witness. Okay. Do you want me to answer, or do you want to answer? 
Mr. Hull. Go ahead. 
The Witness. Okay. 
18 I claimed it for myself about, like --I don't know the exact date, but about 3 years 
19 ago. 
20 Okay. So that would be around, what, February of 2019, just 
21 roughly? 
22 The Witness. Roughly. I can't tell --again, I can't --don't quote me on an exact 
23 date, but I remember about 3 years ago. 
24 
25 Okay. Understood. 
And, just to be clear, your concerns about the Fifth Amendment stretch from  25 
1 February 2019 to the present? There's no time period in there that you believe is 
2 outside the scope of a potential Fifth Amendment claim? 
3 Mr. Hull. Objection. I don't think he has to answer about what time period it 
4 is. He has a reasonable apprehension, some would say good-faith belief. I know I've 
5 heard that --I've heard that language used in connection with the committee. He 
6 doesn't know. 
7 I mean, there are --you're asking questions about events and people, some of 
8 whom he knows better than others, that could come and --who knows what they'll do? 
9 And it's that much of an ambiguous situation where he's reasonably, you know, 
10 apprehensive of giving answers that might lead directly or indirectly to a problem he 
11 doesn't need. 
12 This is not, like, hiding behind the Fifth Amendment. This is --he's doing it 
13 because he can't quite figure out what's going on here. And that's a fair --that's a 
14 fair --with this many people involved and this many events, especially for events, for the 
15 most part, that he was not --he was not in Washington, as you know, on January 6th. 
16 think it's unfair to, like, ask him does it cover this time period or that time period. 
17 Mr. Hull, to be clear, the reason I was asking is because I 
18 understood the Fifth Amendment apprehension to be about January 6th and those 
19 events, so I was just a little surprised that, for you all, it extended back to 2019. So I'm 
20 just trying to clarify what his concern is. 
21 Mr. Hull. No, I don't think it goes back to 2019. There are --there are --you 
22 know, you're asking him questions, you know, over and over again which, if he answers 
23 them, could lead to your getting information from other people or from people 
24 associated with the events. He didn't know who the people were. And I think that's 
25 enough.  26 
1 There's a lot of players here. He knows some of them better than, you know, 
2 others. And I don't think he needs to explain that specifically or --back to a time 
3 sequence, I think it's a very unfair question. 
4 What he --he's asserting the Fifth to --most of the questions that you would ask 
5 him, if you think about it --and, you know, you're right to make a --entitled to make a 
6 record of it --are either, you know, asking for answers that either directly or indirectly 
7 involve other people, and who knows what they'll say or what they'll do. And that's the 
8 problem. And we've seen that before. 
9 We had hoped to be able to explain some things, you know, off the record in 
10 chats. I would give you some information to go on, but --
11 
12 Well, Mr. Hull, this is --we're not trying to trick you guys. 
Mr. Hull. No, no, I --
13 This is just to understand --I'm just trying to understand --like, to 
14 the extent that Mr. Tarrio is asserting the Fifth Amendment, he is perfectly within his 
15 rights to do that. But we also need to understand the apprehension, the reasonable 
16 apprehension, he has behind that. 
17 And, again, my understanding was that your concern was really around 
18 January 6th. Am I hearing now that that's not correct, that you do have --
19 
20 
21 
22 things. Mr. Hull. Well, that would be --
--a concern about earlier periods? 
Mr. Hull. --that would be one thing. You're right, I guess it could be other 
23 But the committee has come at him in a way that makes him feel like they don't 
24 want him to be prepared with documents or to look at documents or have a chance to 
25 look at documents if he has them ahead of time, to produce those documents. You  27 
1 know, the Fifth Amendment doesn't apply to documents. He knows that. 
2 We wanted to be able to do this in a way that was responsible and helpful to you 
3 and protective of, you know, Mr. Tarrio's rights, and we weren't given the opportunity to 
4 do this. 
5 And we shouldn't be here. And we shouldn't be here, you know, unless you 
6 show some kind of willingness to let him get prepared for a deposition, do what he needs 
7 to do, rather than just sort of, you know, heavy-handedly running over him every time 
8 that we suggest a date for doing this or that. I --
9 Mr. Hull, I don't want to --I think already said we 
10 disagree with the characterization of how things have gone. I mean, we --Mr. Tarrio is 
11 certainly not alone in terms of folks that we have asked for information on a very short 
12 time period from. It's not specific to him. It's the select committee has a very limited 
13 amount of time to do the work that it has to do, and therefore we have been operating 
14 on very fast schedules. It is not specific to Mr. Tarrio. 
15 
16 
17 So that is not our intention at all. But I -­
Mr. Hull. And --
--also do not feel the need or want us to waste time on the record 
18 going back and forth about our various understandings of the past negotiations. I just 
19 wanted to establish, so that I understood what his Fifth Amendment claim was, that your 
20 concern is not just about January 6th, that it's about a broader period. 
21 
22 And it feels like the answer to that is yes. Is that fair? 
Mr. Hull. No, I'm not going to say the answer to that is yes. We have gone out 
23 of our way to try to give you information so you can meet your urgent, burning schedule, 
24 and you turned that down. No --
25 Mr. Hull, I don't understand how that's relevant to my question  1 about the Fifth Amendment, but --
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 Mr. Hull. It is relevant. 
--given that Mr. Tarrio --
Mr. Hull. It is relevant to the questions. Why -­
Mr. Hull --
Mr. Hull. Why --
Mr. Hull, given that Mr. Tarrio --I'm going to make this really 
8 simple. Given that Mr. Tarrio is asserting the --
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 Mr. Hull. You don't know anything about --
--Fifth Amendment for that time period -­
The Reporter. I can only get one person speaking at a time. 
Mr. Hull. You have a cartoon --
Thank you, Ms. Zamora. 
Mr. Hull --
Mr. Hull. You want to say certain things -­
Mr. Hull --
Mr. Hull. And we have given you opportunities to learn about the Proud Boys, 
18 and you didn't want it because it didn't fit into your --
19 Mr. Hull, you have said that repeatedly on the record. I'm 
20 wanting a simple --and I want to move on and let get back to his 
21 questioning. 28 
22 I'm just going to say, the fact that Mr. Tarrio is asserting his Fifth Amendment right 
23 going back to 2019 indicates that you are concerned about that time period. 
24 We don't need to go back and forth about that. That's a matter of the record. 
25 I'm going to turn the questioning back over to  1 Mr. Hull. You can talk to yourself as long as you want. I'm not going to agree 
2 to that. 
3 BY 
4 
5 Q 
A Mr. Tarrio, are you currently employed? 
Give me one second. 
6 [Discussion off the record.] 
7 Mr. Hull. , that's --I understand the question. And he wants to give 29 
8 something useful other than --why don't --I'll object to the form of the question. Why 
9 don't you ask him what he does for a living or what his job is, rather than is he employed. 
10 Mr. Tarrio's an entrepreneur and has been his whole life. 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 Q 
A 
Q 
A Okay. Sure. I'm happy to rephrase the question. 
BY 
How do you make a living, Mr. Tarrio? 
I print T-shirts. 
What kind of T-shirts? 
I'll tell you, all sorts of things, from T-shirts for my local lawn service, T-shirts 
17 with political messaging on it, T-shirts for political candidates, T-shirts for freight 
18 companies. I mean, it doesn't matter, I just print T-shirts. 
19 Q Got it. 
20 And Mr. Hull mentioned that you were involved in some business ventures as well. 
21 What were those? 
22 A I had a security camera business a long time ago, and that ended back in, 
23 like, 2017. And then, moving forward, same thing, I print T-shirts. That's my endeavor. 
24 
25 Q Got it. 
And do you have a business related to security system services?  30 
A Not anymore. 
Q When did that end? 1 
2 
3 A Well, I stopped doing --I stopped doing the security camera business a while 
4 ago, and then I changed that entity's --I kept that entity, I changed the method of 
5 business on that entity, and that's what I use for the T-shirt printing. 
6 
7 Q Got it. 
So is that the business that you received two PPP loans for? 
8 Mr. Hull. Objection, form of the question and facts not in evidence. Want to 
9 back up, lay a foundation for that? 
10 I mean, it's a matter of public record that Mr. Tarrio received two 
11 PPP loans. 
12 Is that for the business that you received? 
13 [Discussion off the record.] 
14 
15 The Witness. At the advice of counsel, I'm taking the Fifth on that question. 
Okay. And that's because you have a good-faith belief that an 
16 answer to the question of whether you got two PPP loans this last year would tend to 
17 incriminate you? 
18 
19 
20 Mr. Hull. Objection, form and to the -­
Mr. Hull, this is not a trial. 
Mr. Hull. No, it is. It is. And I'm not, like, just going to sit here and let you 
21 ask about --
22 
23 basis --
24 
25 This is a deposition. I'm asking whether --I'm asking on what 
Mr. Hull. I object --
Mr. Hull -- 1 
2 
3 
4 Mr. Hull. One of your members --
Mr. Hull, the reporter can only hear one person at a time. 
Mr. Hull. That's great. This is not --
Mr. Hull, we'd like to understand the scope of Mr. Tarrio's Fifth 
5 Amendment objections. He is entitled to make a Fifth Amendment objection. I'm 
6 trying to understand what the scope is. 
7 Mr. Hull. You're not entitled to talk about what the Fifth Amendment clearly 
8 isn't. It is not some good-faith belief on --where do you get this, from one of your 
9 members? That's just not what --that's not what the Fifth Amendment is about. A 
10 good-faith belief? It's a belief --it's a reasonable apprehension. I would object to 
11 the --I don't know. Where do you get this? Can you show me a case that says 
12 good-faith belief? I doubt it. 
13 
14 
15 
16 Okay. 
The Witness. Give me one second? 
Sure. 
[Discussion off the record.] 31  32 
1 [11:07 a.m.] 
2 Mr. Hull. I'm sorry. Can you re-ask the question? Can somebody read it 
3 back? 
4 I asked --well, let me rephrase the question. 
5 For what business did you receive two PPP loans for in 2021? 
6 [Discussion off the record.] 
7 Mr. Hull. Go ahead. Go ahead. You can assert it yourself, or I can do it for 
8 you. 
9 The Witness. On the advice of counsel, I am pleading the Fifth Amendment on 
10 that question. 
11 Okay. Thank you, Mr. Tarrio. 
12 
13 
14 Have you ever been employed by an office of Federal, State, or local government? 
Mr. Hull. Objection. Don't answer it. Fifth Amendment. 
The Witness. On the advice of counsel, I'm taking the Fifth Amendment on that 
15 question. 
16 Separate from the PPP loans that I just referenced, have you ever 
17 received grant money or a contract from an office of government? 
18 The Witness. On the advice of my attorney, I'm taking the Fifth Amendment on 
19 that question. 
20 Okay. Is it your intention to take the Fifth Amendment on all 
21 questions the committee would ask regarding your career history, employment, or 
22 businesses? 
23 Mr. Hull. Well, it would depend. Part of the problem with some of the 
24 questions, not every one of them, is that you're asking questions that have --and you can 
25 be free-wheeling, but you're not asking about him about January 6th or anything that the  33 
1 committee's doing. It sounds like it's --you either want to embarrass or harass 
2 Mr. Tarrio. There's no reason for those questions. 
3 I can see questions like that with respect to documents. In the subpoena, there 
4 may have been. But, you know, there --yeah, I guess you can ask him questions about 
5 anything that you might think that would lead to something you can use. But these are 
6 not, for the most part, January 6th questions. For the most part, they're things that he 
7 can give Fifth Amendment privilege responses to. But I'm not really sure why you need 
8 to go down this path. 
9 Mr. Hull, I'm not sure I understand. Are you objecting on the 
10 basis of the Fifth Amendment or not? 
11 Mr. Hull. Some of the past questions that you asked, some of them, he --all but 
12 one --and you can go back and look at it later --he has, you know, a proper Fifth 
13 Amendment objection to, or where he can invoke the privilege. 
14 But I'm just kind of asking as well, why is it important to ask him these questions? 
15 You could've covered this, you know, in a 4-hour chat or a face-to-face thing, but you guys 
16 didn't want to do that. 
17 Well, Mr. Hull, if we could've covered it in an informal chat, we 
18 can cover it in a deposition. So is the basis of your objection the Fifth Amendment or 
19 something else? 
20 
21 
22 
23 Mr. Hull. On your last question, Fifth Amendment. 
Okay. We'll move on. 
Mr. Tarrio, when did you first get involved with the Proud Boys? 
The Witness. On the advice of counsel, I'm taking the Fifth Amendment on that 
24 question. 
25 Was there anything going on in the country that made you  34 
1 particularly motivated to join the Proud Boys? 
2 The Witness. On the advice of my attorney, I'm taking the Fifth Amendment. 
3 Mr. Tarrio, is it your intention to assert the Fifth Amendment over 
4 any question the committee would ask regarding your role in the Proud Boys? 
5 Mr. Hull. Objection. How would he know that until you ask the question? He 
6 doesn't seem to be doing that. And I object to the notion that he's just, like, mindlessly 
7 sort of making his Fifth Amendment --he's trying to listen to you. 
8 Okay. Well, then, I am happy to go through every question that 
9 I have outlined --
10 
11 Mr. Hull. We have --
--and Mr. Tarrio can object to every single question. I am asking 
12 for the sake --
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 Mr. Hull. But let me tell you something right now, 
Mr. Hull --
Mr. Hull. We're not going to --
Mr. Hull, let me finish my thought. 
Mr. Hull. Why don't you go to the Justice Department --
18 We can take the time to go through every single question here, 
19 and Mr. Tarrio can object to every single one --
20 
21 
22 
23 The Reporter. One at a time. 
Thank you 
Mr. Hull. My apologies. 
- Mr. Hull, we can go through and I can ask Mr. Tarrio every 
24 question that I want to ask him, and he can object to every single one. I'm trying to get 
25 a sense of what the scope of his objections are so that we can move this along.  35 
1 The Witness. So, to answer that question, I've objected to most --some of the 
2 questions beforehand. I can't tell you if I'm going to object to future ones. I'm 
3 listening to your question. If I decide that I want to take the Fifth or my attorney advises 
4 me not to answer, then that's what I'm going to do. 
5 Okay. 
6 Mr. Tarrio, can you describe the Proud Boys organization when you first joined it? 
7 
8 Mr. Hull. Objection. Don't answer it. 
The Witness. On the advice of counsel, I am taking the Fifth Amendment on this 
9 question. 
10 BY 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q Mr. Tarrio, what did it mean to you to join the Proud Boys? 
On the advice of counsel, I am taking the Fifth Amendment on this question. 
Were you a member of a chapter or the national organization or both? 
On the advice of my attorney, I am taking the Fifth on this question. 
Did you become a member of the elders chapter? 
On the advice of my attorney, I am taking the Fifth. 
When did you become chairman? 
On the advice of my attorney, I am taking the Fifth. 
Why did you want to become chairman? 
On the advice of my attorney, I'm taking the Fifth. 
What was your relationship with Gavin Mcinnes, the first chairman? 
On the advice of my attorney, I'm taking the Fifth. 
Are you still the chairman of the Proud Boys? 
Mr. Hull. Objection, form of the question. He's already told you he wasn't and 
25 that it was a claimed --something that he chose for himself and was accepted.  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 36 
B~ 
Q Why did you decide to step down as chairman? 
A On the advice of counsel, I am taking the Fifth Amendment on that question. 
Q Who are the current members of the elders chapter? 
A On the advice of counsel, I am taking the Fifth Amendment on that question. 
Q What do members of the elders chapter do? 
Mr. Hull. Objection. Don't answer it. 
The Witness. On the advice of counsel, I'm taking the Fifth Amendment on that 
9 question. 
10 
11 
12 Q Okay. 
Mr. Tarrio, I was hoping you could help me understand how the Proud Boys are 
13 structured. There's a national chapter and local chapters, right? 
14 A On the advice of counsel, I'm taking the Fifth Amendment on that question. 
15 Q What does the national chapter do? 
16 A On the advice of counsel, I'm taking the Fifth Amendment on that question. 
17 
18 
19 Mr. Hull. Off the record for a second. 
Mr. Hull, we can decide when we go on and off the record. 
Mr. Hull. No, I decide that. He's my client. I can go off the record any time I 
20 want to. I want to talk to him. 
21 Mr. Hull, if you'd like to take a sidebar, you're more than welcome 
22 to. 
23 
24 
25 Mr. Hull. I will, any time I want. 
[Discussion off the record.] 
The Witness. Yeah, on your previous question, I am taking the Fifth Amendment.  37 
1 I think I said that already, but --
2 Mr. Hull. Yeah. 
3 
How did the national chapter typically interact with local chapters? 4 
5 
6 Q 
A 
Q On the advice of counsel, I'm taking the Fifth Amendment on that question. 
Mr. Tarrio, I have a series of questions about the structure and organization 
7 of the Proud Boys. Is it your intention to assert the Fifth Amendment over all of those 
8 questions? 
9 
10 Mr. Hull. Objection. 
The Witness. I can't tell you how I'm going to answer future questions. I could 
11 only --you could only go back on the record if you'd like and see how I answered the 
12 previous ones. 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 Q 
A 
Q Okay. We can keep going. 
Mr. Tarrio, were there particular local chapters you were more plugged into? 
On the advice of counsel, I am taking the Fifth Amendment on that question. 
Did you ever do Proud Boys business under the corporate entity Proud Boys 
18 International, LLC? 
19 A On the advice of counsel, I am not --I am taking the Fifth Amendment on 
20 this one --on that question. 
21 Q Did you ever do Proud Boys business under the corporate entity War Boys, 
22 LLC? 
23 Mr. Hull. Could you restate that, please? I'm sorry. 
24 
25 Q Did you ever do business --and I'll rephrase it. Did you ever do any  1 business under the corporate entity War Boys, LLC? 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 A Give me one second. 
[Discussion off the record.] 
The Witness. Okay. _, can you tell me what you define as "doing 
business," as far as the War Boys, LLC, goes? 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A B~: 
Have you been in --are you an officeholder in War Boys, LLC? 
I am not an officeholder for War Boys, LLC. 
Have you ever been an officeholder of War Boys, LLC? 
I opened the corporate entity, yes. 
And what was War Boys, LLC, used for? 
It was supposed to be for a podcast, but it never --it fell through. We 
13 never did anything with it besides just open the corporate entity. 
Q Okay. 
Did you ever do business under the corporate entity Fund the West, LLC? 38 
14 
15 
16 A I don't know. I know I opened the corporation, but I don't think I ever used 
17 it. But I'm not 100 percent sure on that. I don't have --I'm not ready for that question. 
18 I could answer that at another time. 
19 Q Okay. If you'd like to submit supplemental information, we'd like to see 
20 that. 
21 Did you ever do Proud Boys business --did you ever do business under the 
22 corporate entity Proud Boys, LLC, which I understand is distinct from Proud Boys 
23 International, LLC. 
24 A Is that, by any chance, if you could answer this, is that the Miami-based one, 
25 or Florida-based one?  1 
2 Q 
A 39 
Yes. 
We didn't conduct any business on it. Again, I opened the corporation. 
3 Never opened, like, a bank account or anything like that. And I think --I believe that I let 
4 that entity just die off. 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 Q Okay. 
Did the Proud Boys own property under any of these corporate entities? 
A 
Q The ones that I answered you, absolutely not. 
Okay. Thank you. 
Do you have an estimate on the number of members who identify as Proud Boys? 
A I can't really answer that because --
Mr. Hull. Objection, form. 
But go ahead and answer it if you can. 
The Witness. Yeah. I can't --like, I don't have an answer to that, simply, like, I 
14 don't know, because seven dudes in Kansas or seven dudes in Wyoming can get together 
15 and create a Proud Boys chapter of themselves. 
16 BY 
17 Q Got it. Can you elaborate on that a little? Are there a lot of chapters that 
18 are formed that way? 
19 A Yeah. I mean, basically, like, if you've got seven guys and you want to 
20 become a Proud Boy chapter, you basically --you don't need --you really don't need 
21 permission from anybody. 
22 
23 Q 
A Are there requirements to identify as a Proud Boy? 
On Gavin Mclnnes's show, he stated that all you have to do to become a 
24 Proud Boy is state that you're a Western chauvinist and you refuse to apologize for 
25 creating the modern world. So I'm guessing --and that you be born a male. So I'm  40 
1 guessing that's, like, the only requirement. 
2 Q Got it. So, when these chapters are formed, that's all those people have to 
3 do to call themselves Proud Boys? 
Pretty much. 4 
5 A 
Q I think a couple of years ago you estimated to the press that there were 
6 about 22,000 members of the Proud Boys. Does that sound about right? 
7 A I mean, I've said numerous --throughout the years, I've said numerous 
8 numbers that I would assume based on just, like, how many Republicans there are in the 
9 State or how many Democrats there are in the State and things like that and people that 
10 I've talked to that self-identify as Proud Boys. 
11 Mr. Hull. Forgive me, 
12 22,000? 
13 He said 22,000. 
Mr. Hull. No, you don't know. 
The Witness. I don't know. What was the number you just gave? Was it 
14 
15 
16 Mr. Hull. I think --I don't want him to be --he doesn't know, and I think he's said 
17 that recently, of how many there are, or even what that means, like, you know, in the 
18 scheme of things. 
19 Got it. 
20 B 
21 
22 
23 Q So, just so I understand, there was no, kind of, central tracking? 
A No. 
Q And would there be --you know, if a local chapter decided to form, let's say, 
24 seven guys in Kansas, like you said, would they be in touch with the national chapter or 
25 the elders chapter?  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 Mr. Hull. Objection, form. 
The Witness. What's that mean? 
Mr. Hull. That means that he's asking if --can we go off the record? 
The Witness. Yeah. Give me one second. 
Take a sidebar, sure. 
[Discussion off the record.] 
Mr. Hull. Excuse me. Can you restate the question? 
8 I asked, if a local chapter decides to form --and, Mr. Tarrio, you 41 
9 gave the hypothetical example of seven guys from Kansas --would they be in touch with 
10 the national chapter? 
11 The Witness. On the advice of counsel, I'm taking the Fifth Amendment on that 
12 question. 
13 Okay. I understand that there are four levels of membership in 
14 the Proud Boys. Is that true? 
15 Mr. Hull. _, are you talking about, if I may ask, about degrees, that kind 
16 of thing, the Gavin Mcinnes-era degrees of Proud Boys? Is that it? 
17 
18 - That's right. 
The Witness. Yeah. I could --I could --the only thing I could answer is based 
19 on Gavin Mclnnes's podcast that day. 
20 But the first degree of membership is stating that you're a Western chauvinist and 
21 you refuse to apologize for creating the modern world. 
22 To my knowledge, the second degree is more of a frat boy thing. Although not 
23 hard, it's five guys punch you while you name five breakfast cereals. 
24 Third level of --third degree is a tattoo that says "Proud Boys" on it. 
25 And the fourth degree, from what I understand, it's just --means a hardship.  42 
1 Got it. I saw in reporting that to get to the fourth degree you 
2 have to commit an act of violence against antifa. Is that correct? 
3 The Witness. That is not correct. I got my fourth-degree level of membership 
4 doing water rescues during Hurricane Harvey, where I sat --we sat 5 days and we did 
5 298 direct water rescues during those events. 
6 
7 
8 
9 Mr. Hull. You might mention --
Certainly sounds like a hardship. 
Mr. Hull. And you might mention that you don't try out for it; it's --
The Witness. Yeah, that's another thing. Like, you can't --just to give you an 
10 understanding of just, I guess, like, the culture, is the only thing I could really --you 
11 can't --one thing that you can't do is, you can't go looking for trouble of any sort. That 
12 would not constitute, like, a fourth degree. 
13 
14 Got it. That makes sense. 
The Witness. Like, example, if you go --if you're at a bar or something and you 
15 go to the bar and you push some guy and he, like, breaks a bottle over your head, right, 
16 you're --like, you looked for that trouble, so that wouldn't be a fourth degree. 
17 And I'm not saying, like, Proud Boys go to bars and push people or anything like 
18 that. I'm just making, like, a general statement, like, somebody at a bar would --like, 
19 that wouldn't be considered a fourth degree of membership. 
20 So, no, violence is not a requisite of being, for one, a Proud Boy or having a fourth 
21 degree in the Proud Boys. 
22 
23 
24 
25 Got it. Understood. That's helpful. Thanks, Mr. Tarrio. 
Mr. Hull. Sidebar just for a second. 
The Witness. One second. 
Sure.  1 
2 [Discussion off the record.] 
The Witness. , to expand --can I expand a little bit on that previous 
3 question? 
4 Please. 43 
5 The Witness. It also includes good works. Like, if we --I heard about a chapter 
6 in central west Florida that did, like, a bicycle and toy drive for Christmas, and, like, they 
7 gave the entire chapter a fourth degree. And by "they," I mean, like, the chapter gave 
8 itself a fourth degree at that point. 
9 
10 
11 Q Got it. Great. 
And, you know, you mentioned that there was no central tracking of membership 
12 across the country. So was there tracking of, you know, how many people were in 
13 particular degrees? 
14 A No. I mean, there's no --since there's no way to track people, like I 
15 answered in the previous question, there's definitely no way to track degrees or whatnot. 
16 
17 Q Got it. 
I'm just curious. I imagine that, you know, you would be concerned about 
18 making sure that people who joined the Proud Boys were genuine members who really 
19 wanted to be in the organization. Was there, like, a vetting process? 
20 A Again, that depends on --this goes to the previous answer to your question. 
21 If you're seven guys in Kansas, right, like, you have your own vetting process or whatnot. 
22 And I would hope that, you know, you bring in great people. 
23 Q Great. 
24 I will just note for the record, and I apologize for not doing this 
25 earlier, Ms. Zoe Lofgren has joined -- 1 
2 The Witness. I'm sorry --I'm sorry, repeat that? 
- I was noting for the record, and I apologize for not doing this 
3 earlier, Ms. Zoe Lofgren has joined the meeting. 
4 
5 Q You mentioned the oath that Proud Boys have to take, and I think you 
6 paraphrased it or quoted it. Do you mind saying that again? 44 
7 A I am a western chauvinist, and I refuse to apologize for creating the modern 
8 world. 
9 Q Great. Can you help me understand, you know, how to break down that 
10 oath and what the oath means to you or to Proud Boys? 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A I can --
Like, what --
Go ahead. I'm sorry. Finish your question. 
Sure. What is Western chauvinism? 
I can only give you the opinion, like, my opinion of it. And I believe, like, 
16 Western civilization, the ability for us right here to be communicating over, you know, 
17 different States, our court systems, civilized society. I just --I just --we're not a Third 
18 World country. We're not a --it's not --it's good to be in America. 
19 
20 
21 Q Yeah. That's helpful. 
Do you ever talk to --
A Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't completely finish it. So Western --and then 
22 "chauvinism" just means extreme patriotism. 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A 
Q Got it. And what does that mean to you, extreme patriotism? 
Just having --loving this country and its many, many diverse hues. 
Yeah, absolutely. I mean, can you tell me more about that, what that  45 
1 means to you? 
2 A My personal opinion on this, like, what it means to have patriotism, is 
3 understanding that, you know, we're different from the rest of the world, and we are a 
4 free country and we are a free society. The ability to be able to protest, you know, the 
5 government, you know, where my family came from, you can't do that. You know, 
6 they'll put you --
7 Mr. Hull. Quarantine. 
8 The Witness. They'll put you in a Gulag, and they'll --my family was executed at 
9 the command of Che Guevara. They were put on their knees and tied their hands 
10 behind their back, and they shot them in the back of their heads because they didn't give 
11 up property. 
12 And something that goes with my patriotism is, like, the ability to own property, 
13 the ability to practice the religion that you want, the ability to, you know, love whoever 
14 you want. Whether male or female, it doesn't matter to me. I think that's the core 
15 belief of America. And I think that that's where my patriotism comes from. 
16 Q Got it. Just so I, kind of, can understand that a little bit more, are there, 
17 like, public figures or politicians you think who really embody that? 
18 A I think --I think people that really embody it is, like, Teddy Roosevelt is 
19 somebody that I look up to a lot. John F. Kennedy was another person. I'm not a big 
20 fan of Clinton, Bill, but I think that the country during his time was in a good place. Not 
21 a big Bush fan. Not a big Obama fan. 
22 And I think, just beyond, like, United States Presidents, I think, like founding 
23 members of this country --like, Sam Adams is somebody that I really look up to. 
24 
25 Q Yeah. That's helpful. 
So what was it about Bush and Obama that you didn't like?  46 
1 A I didn't like Bush because of the war in Afghanistan, and I believe that, you 
2 know, we had no business in Afghanistan. Like, I don't know how our freedoms got 
3 across the pond that way. 
4 Obama, really because of socialized healthcare, ramming it through Congress 
5 without a lot of people reading it. But that's my personal opinion. I just don't like --I 
6 don't like not having a democratic process to things. 
Q Understood. 7 
8 And, you know, how about our most recent President, President Trump? Where 
9 does he fit on your scale? 
10 A I'm a big fan of President Trump. I think that he was a person that said it 
11 how he felt. You know, I disagreed with him a lot of times, with a lot of things, but I 
12 think --all in all, I think he was a great President. He didn't give us more wars. 
13 Q What's that? 
14 A He didn't give us more wars. And I guess that's the thing I liked about him 
15 the most. 
16 Q Sure. You mentioned that you disagreed with him on some stuff. What 
17 was that? 
18 A Disagreed with him on bump stocks. I disagreed with him --and even, like, 
19 I don't know, I consider myself a conservative, but I think that other conservatives 
20 disagreed with me on this: the Dakota Access Pipeline. I didn't agree with it. I think 
21 taking --and it goes back to, like, my family roots. Taking somebody's property, 
22 American citizens' property, for a corporation I think is wrong. 
23 Q Yeah. That makes sense. 
24 So, when I was asking you about, kind of, public figures who embody Western 
25 chauvinism, would you have put Trump among them?  1 
2 
3 
4 my--
5 
6 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 47 
I'd probably include Trump among them, yes. 
Yeah. Were there particular things that he did or said? 
We're going into opinion here, but I guess I'm free to talk about, like, what 
Yeah. I really just want to know what you think. I'm curious. 
I think that he --I think he believed in law and order. You know, that's 
7 something that was big with me, because, you know, you've got to be able to protect, you 
8 know, those constitutional rights and those constitutional values. 
9 I think that sometimes he should have put down his phone on Twitter, you know? 
10 But I also liked that he pushed the narrative of, like, First Amendment rights. 
11 That's --no matter --like, again, I disagree with him, but, you know, I think the guy should 
12 be able to say whatever he wants. And I think he inspired a lot of people to be able to 
13 say things that they want. 
14 Q Yeah. That makes sense. 
15 Kind of, thinking about, you know, opposition to the idea of Western 
16 chauvinism or --you know, you mentioned the modern world, as well, in the oath, right? 
17 
18 A 
Q Uh-huh. 
What do you think are the biggest threats to those concepts? 
19 A I think the biggest threats to those --I think other superpowers are the 
20 biggest threats to that. I think misinformation campaigns from other countries is an 
21 issue. 
22 I believe, like, another issue is being at each others' throats for disagreements. 
23 think --I kind of say this in jest, but I think the internet has brought out the worst in 
24 people. And they argue so much on the internet, and I think they don't get together 
25 enough and, like, discuss those differences.  48 
1 Because I have a lot of people and I have a lot of friends from my childhood that, 
2 you know, I still talk to that have completely different political views than me, and, like, I 
3 get along with them because I don't sit on the internet and argue with them. We go out 
4 together, we go to lunch, we go to dinner, we go on ski trips together, things like that, 
5 and we're able to talk our differences out. 
6 And I think that --I think, actually, that's the biggest issue we have in America, is 
7 that we are too busy fighting on the internet and not talking to each other and seeing the 
8 things that we agree on. Left, right, center, Libertarian, it doesn't matter what side of 
9 the political spectrum you're on. 
10 
11 
12 Q 
A 
Q Yeah. The internet is an interesting place. 
Yes, it is. 
You know, are there particular trends that you notice in terms of people not 
13 wanting to talk to each other or people at each other's throats, like you said? 
14 A I mean, again, I think, this is, like, just opinion, but I think you --you asked, 
15 like, specifically, like, topics? 
16 
17 Q 
A Trends. 
Trends and topics? Yeah, well, I'll go with trends and topics. 
18 I guess it's just, like, the flavor of the month when you're on, like, an internet 
19 forum, like Twitter or Face book or whatever, and if something's trending, everybody 
20 wants to have an opinion on it. And then, if the person's wrong, you go ahead and you 
21 call them some crazy, offensive name. And then it stops becoming about the issue and 
22 more about the argument. 
23 Q Uh-huh. Yeah. 
24 And you mentioned misinformation campaigns from potentially other countries. 
25 What do you think they're trying to do to American society?  49 
1 A I think that they're trying --one example I can give you, and then I'll answer 
2 your question. I think this was pre-election. The Iranian Government --the FBI came 
3 out with this. The Iranian Government spoofed the Proud Boys email and started 
4 sending voters, like, intimidating emails. And, you know, that shows you that other 
5 countries, like, want to make us, like, really question a lot of things and want us divided as 
6 a country. 
7 You know, because if you're --let's just say you're, like, an elderly person, 60 years 
8 old, 70 years old, you've only heard about the Proud Boys through, like, the lens of 
9 corporate media outlets, right, and they've said that there are these big scary White 
10 supremacists --and, obviously, I'm not White, right? --you know, you're scared. And 
11 then, on top of that, these Proud Boys sent you an email, trying to intimidate you via an 
12 email, and you're, like, okay, I'm not going to go vote, you know? That's an example of 
13 another country trying to meddle in, like, things that simply don't concern them, you 
14 know? 
15 And then, here, I'll give you some more personal opinion on that. You know, the 
16 United States has meddled also in, like, the elections and affairs of other countries, you 
17 know? So that, in itself --I mean, like, why are we doing this battle? Why doesn't 
18 everybody just leave each other alone? 
19 
20 Q Yeah. 
I remember the Iranian email incident. Do you have a sense of, like, why they 
21 might've tried to use the Proud Boys in that way? 
22 A I think Joe Biden had mentioned us in the debate stage, so, after Joe Biden 
23 mentioned us, I think that they used that as an example, or they used that as, like, a push. 
24 You know, they used that slingshot to kind of come in and do what they did. 
25 Q Yeah.  50 
1 Since you've brought up the debate, I guess I'll ask about the other well-known 
2 quote from that, President Trump saying, "Stand back and stand by." I'm curious how 
3 you took it at the time. 
4 A I took it to be, like --I took it to be, like, "Hey, the election's coming up. 
5 Stand by." I also believe that he meant it, like, "Stand by me as the President," like, I've 
6 never, like, failed --I think he was more telling that to, like, the American people too. 
7 Like, I haven't failed you yet, so just stand behind me. I think that's where my --that's 
8 what I thought. That's what I took from it. 
9 
10 
11 
12 Q Yeah. It was kind of a difficult statement to parse, right? 
A Yeah, it was. 
Q Do you feel like Proud Boys were standing by President Trump? 
A Here's the thing. So, again, I can't speak for, like, all the guys all over the 
13 country or all over the world. Because we have chapters, like, all over Europe, Israel, 
14 Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea. But I'd say there's a lot of Trump supporters that are 
15 Proud Boys, but we have Biden supporters. We have people that I've seen that they're 
16 open Biden supporters, open Bernie supporters. 
17 As a matter of fact, when Gavin kind of did this whole thing on his show, the first 
18 people that kind of made their own Proud Boys group were started actually by Bernie 
19 supporters. 
20 
21 
22 
23 Mr. Hull. Bernie Sanders. 
The Witness. Bernie Sanders, yes. 
Q Yeah. 
24 So I guess I'm curious, you know, after Trump said that on the debate stage, do 
25 you have a sense of how other Proud Boys might have reacted to it or how they  51 
1 interpreted it? 
2 A It was interpreted in many different ways that I can tell. And my opinion, 
3 you know, I think people took it however they wanted. You know, I just don't --I can't 
4 really speak for others --
5 
6 
7 Q 
A 
Q Sure. 
--on that. 
Let me make it more concrete, then, to you. Like, did you have 
8 conversations with people as to, like, what that could've meant? 
9 A Yeah. Some people were angry that he mentioned us because they didn't 
10 want the spotlight. Some people took it like, "Man, the President mentioned us," and it 
11 was a fun moment. Some people took it like, "Hey, stand by," you know? Like, "Let's 
12 go rally," or whatever. There's a lot of people, obviously, that like going to rallies. I'm 
13 included in that. 
14 I see that Ms. Lofgren has come on to video. 
15 Ms. Lofgren, do you have a question? 
16 
17 Ms. Lofgren. Well, I did have a brief question. 
Mr. Tarrio, I have received a copy of a post from you, and it's "Enrique's House of 
18 Propaganda" from your --"Tarrio's Telegram." And it's a picture of me holding a piece 
19 of paper at a microphone in the Judiciary Committee, and the caption from you is, 
20 "This" --I'm going to spell it out, c-u-n-t --"is blind in one eye ... " 
21 I'm wondering what you meant by that. 
22 The Witness. I wish I could reference the post, Ms. --how do you pronounce 
23 your name? I'm sorry. 
24 
25 Ms. Lofgren. Lofgren. 
The Witness. Lofgren. I wish I could --I wish I had that in front of me where I  52 
1 could see it. But I'll make sure to take a look at it and I'll --we'll do a supplemental. 
Mr. Hull. Did it come from you? 2 
3 The Witness. Here's what I think. I don't know if it came from me, but there's 
4 multiple people that run Telegram channels, specifically mine too. 
5 
6 
7 
8 Ms. Lofgren. All right. 
I yield back. 
Thank you, Ms. Lofgren. 
Mr. Hull. I would ask for a clarification. I'm just curious, just to sort of clean 
9 things up. I don't know if Representative Lofgren is gone or not, but what --it was on 
10 Telegram, but which handle, if you will, on Telegram? There's lots of different --
11 
12 
13 The Witness. Well, she said it. I think she said it. 
Mr. Hull. Did --
The Witness. I think she said it. 
14 I think it was the "Enrique's House of Propaganda" or something 
15 like that. 
16 
17 
18 
19 Mr. Hull. Yeah. That's --excuse me. Is that a --
The Witness. No. That's --well, that's one of the channels -­
Mr. Hull. Well, you don't do that. Okay. Never mind. 
The Witness. Yeah, I --listen, and here's another thing. I don't rem---like, I 
20 can remember what I post, and I just don't remember posting that. And it's called --I 
21 named it --for a little while called it the "House of Propaganda" simply because there was 
22 a lot of people that ran that channel. 
23 BY 
24 
25 Q So that was one of your channels, Mr. Tarrio? 
A That's one of the channels that I administrate, yes.  1 
2 Q Got it. 
I just wanted to zoom out a little. And we were talking about, kind of, what 53 
3 you're concerned about in terms of the modern world, and I've heard you talk about the 
4 threat from antifa. Do you mind elaborating on that? 
5 A You know, going through the years, starting with 2016 --and, like, I didn't 
6 first hear about antifa during this administration; I've heard of antifa before. The 
7 black-bloc tactic isn't something that's brand-new to society. You know, they use 
8 violence and intimation for a political cause. 
9 And I saw it many times in the streets of Portland. I saw it many times during the 
10 BLM protests in the summer. I saw, you know, a lot of peaceful protesters, yes, but I did 
11 see a lot of black-bloc-style violence, where, you know, people would go out to protest 
12 police brutality over a specific cause, and you'd have these little White kids running 
13 around smashing windows and throwing Molotov cocktails at police officers and things 
14 like that. 
15 I think at one point, you know, we held some rallies in Portland called "End 
16 Domestic Terrorism," and it was really meant to expose antifa violence, the separation 
17 between, like, how the media covers us and how the media covers these dudes that just 
18 burn down their cities. 
19 
20 Q 
A Yeah. So am I to take it that you think of antifa as domestic terrorists? 
I don't think --I think that's a very strong word, and I think that we gotta be 
21 careful with that language. I think there's laws in place that should be implemented and 
22 should be enforced. 
23 I don't think that those labels are something that --the U.S. Government has a 
24 history of, like, spiraling balls out of control. And I'm afraid that labeling somebody 
25 "domestic terrorist," I think, would spiral at first --you know, it would probably be with,  54 
1 like, the best of intentions, but I think that that would spiral and I think that law 
2 enforcement will start using that to start targeting free and legal, protected free speech. 
3 Q Yeah. I know these are very difficult things to balance. 
4 So, with that in mind, kind of, help me understand what it meant to "End 
5 Domestic Terrorism" now, with the name of your rally? 
6 A I think now --and I think this is right after that last rally that I had, the "End 
7 Domestic Terrorism" rally. I had a talk with a friend of mine which is a lawyer, and he's 
8 like, you know what you're asking for, right? And I didn't understand at the time, and he 
9 explained it to me. He goes, you know that they'll --the U.S. Government will snowball 
10 this, and it'll be used, you know, for any kind of political speech, you know? So he made 
11 me, like, double-think what --like, the words that I use when it came to domestic 
12 terrorism. 
Q Uh-huh. Yeah. That makes sense. 13 
14 There was, you know, a lot of stuff going on in 2020. There were COVID-related 
15 protests. There were the racial justice protests across the country. If you had to, like, 
16 kind of describe what was going on in the country in 2020, how would you --what's your 
17 view on it? 
18 A I wasn't binary. I think --I think police brutality is a very just cause to 
19 protest. And I think that what ended up happening is, like, a few bad actors got in there 
20 and created a mess at some of these rallies. And, like I said, most of them were very 
21 peaceful. But the ones that were violent were very violent. 
22 I think it's counter --it's counter to your narrative of, like, minorities getting the 
23 short end of the stick when it comes to law enforcement and you're in a minority-owned 
24 community and you're burning down businesses. I just don't think that that was 
25 something that I can truly support in that specific instance.  55 
1 You know, I'm not binary. I'm not, like, well, every protest --every racial protest 
2 of police brutality was horrible. I'm not binary like that. Just --
3 Q Yeah. I know. I mean, this is all complicated. 
4 
5 A 
Q 
6 involved? 
7 A It is. It is. 
Did you or did you see other Proud Boys feel like they needed to help or get 
I know that there was --I know that there was a lot of people that, you 
8 know, with, like, the more violent protests, that there was Proud Boys in their local area 
9 that wanted to protect, like, their businesses and their homes, you know, and they went 
10 and I saw that they did that. 
11 You know, that's something, again, if you're a business owner or your friend's a 
12 business owner and you want to defend that business, I'm fully supportive of that. 
13 You know, I can't talk --I can't speak for, you know, people that did go out there. 
14 I can only speak for myself and my opinion of what that was. 
Q Sure. 15 
16 You know, that was a tough time for government, for law enforcement, for the 
17 National Guard as well. A lot of resources were used to, you know, deal with those 
18 situations. What do you think of the government response during the spring, summer, 
19 fall of 2020? 
20 A I think it lacked, you know? I think they could have protected these 
21 people's free speech and would have kept law and order, but I think --I think the --and 
22 I'm not going to blame, like, local law enforcement, like, police officers directly, you know, 
23 because I'm sure that they wanted to do their job. But either brass or the mayor or the 
24 governor or somebody got involved, and then it turned into --instead of law and order, it 
25 turned into, like, politics as usual. People were using that to run, you know, reelection  1 campaigns or targeted ads to raise money for their campaigns. 
2 So I think the government could've done a better job. I think the government 
3 can always do a better job of doing better, and I think that's --that's how we move 
4 forward. 
5 
6 Q 
A Do you have thoughts on what that better job would look like? 
I'll be honest. I just don't --I don't know how to fix it. I know it's a 56 
7 problem, and I know it's something that I will always speak out against, but I just don't --I 
8 don't know. 
9 Because it also depends on what area we're talking about. Are we talking about, 
10 like, a city government? A State government? And it varies from State to State. You 
11 know, the Federal Government, the Presidency, Members of Congress, the Senate? 
12 
13 
14 Q 
A Yeah. Like we said, it's a complicated issue. 
It is. 
Mr. Hull. Let me just make a comment maybe, a kind of continuing objection. 
15 I'm not sure I understand how these questions, as interesting and as thoughtful as they 
16 are, are geared toward doing the committee's work on the attack on the Capitol on 
17 January 6th. 
18 Are these questions that are designed to find out what happened, or you're 
19 just --you're really fascinated in Mr. Tarrio's world view? 
20 Well, I am fascinated with Mr. Tarrio's world view. I'm enjoying 
21 the conversation. But the committee is tasked with looking at, you know, a broad range 
22 of issues related to January 6th, including influencing factors. And so, you know, the 
23 state of American democracy during 2020 is one of those issues. 
24 Mr. Hull. Mr. Tarrio was specifically --I believe in the letter that was written by 
25 Congressman Thompson, in the beginning of the call, which explores his part, that  57 
1 Mr. Tarrio was somehow involved in violence or may have been involved in violence in 
2 connection with January 6th. 
3 And some violence did occur on January 6th. I assume that these questions have 
4 something to do with what you're headed toward in terms of his role in that, if any. Am 
5 I --do I have that wrong? Or --
6 I mean, at this point, I'm, you know, trying to get his sense of, like 
7 we were talking about, the state of American democracy in 2020, which is, you know, a 
8 relevant influencing factor in what happened on January 6th, regardless of whether that 
9 had to do with Mr. Tarrio specifically. 
10 Mr. Hull. Okay. 
11 I will also just note for the record, I mean, the chairman's letter 
12 that Mr. Tarrio that was attached to the subpoena was not meant to be exhaustive. 
13 Mr. Hull. I understand that. It was --but it was somewhat inflammatory. And 
14 that's fine; you can do that. But it did seem to focus on this kind of --this notion that 
15 was out there, and a not very well-vetted or investigated notion, that the Proud Boys and 
16 specifically Mr. Tarrio were involved with commandeering violence that had something to 
17 do with the obstruction of the certification of the electoral college vote. And I just 
18 assumed that your questions would be leading into that area. And maybe I'm wrong 
19 about that. 
20 You know he wasn't there that day. So, you know, I assume that --you could 
21 have this conversation with him over a cup of coffee. You don't need to ask him here. 
22 This is about Proud Boys, Mr. Tarrio's role in inciting violence, and that's --that was just 
23 bought, hook, line, and sinker, by a lot of things that have come out of the committee. 
24 It was unchallenged. It was unexplored. 
25 I'm glad that you're interested in Mr. Tarrio's views and what kind of person he is,  58 
1 but how these questions have anything to do with your mission and what you were 
2 tasked with doing --I guess it just may be me. 
3 Mr. Hull, I think I answered that question. 
4 Mr. Hull. It's just kind of, like, so are we going to talk about the mood of the 
5 Midwest later? I mean, how many questions can you ask him about his opinion that 
6 may have some kind of ripple effect or association with what happened on January 6th, a 
7 constitutional day in America? I mean, is everything relevant in your questioning? I'm 
8 just --I'm not criticizing --
9 Mr. Hull, I answered your question. 
10 I thought we were having a pretty productive conversation, Mr. Tarrio, and I was 
11 enjoying it. I don't know if you were. And maybe we can get back to it, if we can move 
12 past this. 
13 Mr. Hull. Well, I'd like you to ask him the questions that you really want to ask 
14 him so that, you know, we can, you know, get out and do some other things. 
15 Okay. Mr. Hull, I told that you should expect to spend the whole 
16 day with the select committee. I don't know if you --
17 Mr. Hull. Well, we will probably not --we will probably not do that, but --and 
18 you can do whatever you want to do in response to that. 
19 But we had gone out of our way to offer you a forum like this and then, again, in a 
20 more formal setting, asked if Mr. Tarrio could, you know, get out of jail, look at his 
21 documents, evaluate the documents, make objections to that, if he had any, on his 
22 devices. And I assume there must be something on those devices, which we understand 
23 are somewhere in Florida. That's about all we know about them. 
24 But, you know --and we are willing to still do that, to be compliant with the 
25 subpoena. But I'm just not quite sure I understand why we couldn't have accomplished  59 
1 this a different way. 
2 You know, keep going here, and we'll try to get through this. But I --this 
3 is --there was no indication that this would be a good thing for Mr. Tarrio to do today. 
4 Everything that has been written about it by you, or discussed about it, has suggested the 
5 kind of manhandling of this guy and a complete disregard for things that he may want to 
6 do to protect his rights in order to respond to the subpoena. 
7 And I don't know why we're here. I really don't. And I'm not saying the 
8 committee's work isn't important. It is. But it's not important to do this now with 
9 Mr. Tarrio, when he's, you know, not ready to comply with the subpoena because he 
10 can't, almost like a force du jour. And he's tried to make you accommodations with you 
11 to do that, and they've kind of fallen on deaf ears. 
12 So, you know, I guess I'd just put that on the record and be quiet for a while. But 
13 I'm not quite sure why we're doing this the way we're doing it. And now you're not 
14 asking him questions about the supposed, you know, animus that Mr. Tarrio would've 
15 given to January 6th even though he wasn't there. So --
16 
17 
18 
19 Okay. All right. Thank you for stating your views, Mr. Hull. 
The Witness. Can I --can I add something to that? 
Sure. 
The Witness. While, you know --and I'm with Dan on --I'm with my lawyer on 
20 this, when it comes to, like, you know, let's get to the meat and potatoes of this. But 
21 there's an example. Ms. Lofgren came in. I was trying to look for the post. I don't 
22 remember writing this post. 
23 But instead of --there was an article on the top, a CNN article on the top, that's 
24 not actually available anymore for some reason. Ms. Lofgren, herself, was more 
25 concerned about the name that I called her instead of the article that was right above it,  60 
1 which would [inaudible] the comments. She didn't come to ask me --she didn't --like, 
2 her first response to me wasn't, "Hey, I said this, and why did you disagree with me on 
3 it?" She was like, "And why'd you call me a c-u-n-t?" 
4 You know, so, like, I don't think that this is a place for, like, personal questions. 
5 And I get --I get it. Like, you want to, kind of, get a character thing. But, like, I 
6 wasn't --I wasn't there on January 6th. I wasn't the cause of what happened January 
7 6th. I'm trying to give you as much insight as I can give you so you guys can have your 
8 investigative --so you could make up your mind on what happened on January 6th. 
9 But, I mean, I just wanted to say that. So, if you want to --if you want to 
10 continue, okay now.  61 
1 [12:06 p.m.] 
2 
3 Q So just help me to square the circle with what you were saying before about 
4 how, you know, people don't want to engage online because they just call each other 
5 names. So you did call Ms. Lofgren a cunt? 
6 A No. I don't even remember typing that. I said that clearly. But I looked 
7 for it, I looked for it as we're --as we were there, I looked for it, just to see what was it. 
8 
9 Q So somebody using your account called Ms. Lofgren a cunt? 
A I have --like, I --I mean, I stated this previously. That account's 
10 administered by a lot of people. 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 Mr. Hull. What's the significance of being called that word? I mean, that -­
The Witness. That's in relation to the --
Mr. Hull. No, no, I'm --
The Witness. Yeah. 
Mr. Hull. --just trying to understand -­
The Witness. No. 
Mr. Hull. --why that's an important thing. That's a word that's been around 
18 since 1300s in London. It's not a particularly nice word for a lot of people, but --
19 The Witness. You know the history of that word? 
20 Mr. Hull. I do, unfortunately. 
21 But, just to come in here and kind of, like, you know, register that out of context, 
22 you know, it's --
23 Does the context matter? 
24 Mr. Hull. Well, no, no, it's not --the words matter here, and we all have 
25 different ideas about what words should be used. But we didn't get much context  62 
1 from the Congresswoman. 
2 And, you know, I --there are --you know, I'm not a big Telegram fan, but there are 
3 all sorts of things that are happening on there with people that --you know, I mean, even 
4 the people on Telegram who were supposed to be in the same groups don't agree with 
5 one another on, you know, anything. It's just kind of a really nasty Irish bar scene. 
6 But go ahead. You know, ask --feel free to highlight the indignities that 
7 Mr. Tarrio has, you know, heaped on the pile with one member of the --I just don't 
8 understand a why that's such a big deal. So --
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 The Witness. Did it freeze? 
Q 
A 
Q 
A Mr. Tarrio, what does the acronym "RWDS" mean? 
It's an internet meme, and it means right-wing death squad. 
What's the significance of that? 
It's based on an anime from --I forget what it's called. It's like --it's called, 
15 like, "Wolf Brigade" or something like that. And, I mean, the significance of it, besides it 
16 being part of an anime, is --you know, I'll tell you the --like, other people decide to make 
17 it more nefarious than it actually is, when it's literally, like, just a really cool anime. 
18 Mr. Hull. Are you suggesting this is something that the Proud Boys created or 
19 originated or just agreed with or --I mean, so I understand what you're getting at here. 
20 Sure. 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A 
Q 
A Have you ever worn a patch saying "RWDS"? 
I sell those patches on my online store. 
And do a lot of people buy them? 
I mean, I don't know what "a lot" is. If you count the fact that I don't have  1 a credit card processor, I'd say no. So I can't really sell them. 
2 
3 them. 
4 
5 
6 Q Oh, I'm sorry. I asked if you had ever worn them, and you said you sell 
A Yeah. I think I've worn them once or twice before, yeah. 
Q Yeah. So it's just because you love anime? 
A Pretty much. I --if you haven't noticed, I wear other patches. If you've 63 
7 noticed --if you're saying that I wore that, I'm sure you noticed my other patches, which 
8 have other references that are similar to that. So --
9 
10 
11 
12 Q 
A Do you sell all those other patches too? 
Yeah. I do sell a bunch of patches. 
Q What kind of patches? 
A "Metal Gear Solid" patches. I sell --mainly, everything in the store I try to 
13 keep at, like, a comical sense, so, like, an inside joke kind of thing. But for the most 
14 part --yeah, I sell a lot of different patches on the store. 
15 
16 
17 
18 Q And what's the website for the store? 
A 1776.shop. 
Q Got it. 
And you mentioned that your credit card processor is not currently working for 
19 you. So are you able to sell things? 
20 
21 
22 A At the current moment, no. 
Q Got it. And when did that happen? 
A I think it happened, like --started happening, like, 3 years ago, lightly, and 
23 then just --now I just --I just don't have a credit card processor now. 
24 
25 Q Yeah. That sounds like a challenging situation if you're trying to sell stuff. 
Did you --you know, was that business intended as, like, a personal venture, or  64 
1 was it --
2 A It was a --it was kind of, like, a hobby, kind of. I really --I wasn't looking to 
3 make money, a lot of money on it. And then just one day it went, like, viral on the 
4 internet, and people just started buying merchandise. And there was --I can't tell you 
5 that it was, like, a business that made tons of money, but it at least put the food on the 
6 table. 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 Q In addition to the shirt business? Or is that separate? 
A No, that's part --that's part of the shirt business. 
Q Got it. 
Was any of that money used for, you know, stuff related to the Proud Boys? 
A My personal trips maybe, like, if I took a trip to, like, go to, like, a festivity or 
12 to go meet some of the guys. I mean, that would be the only way that the money would 
13 be used on that, that I could remember. 
14 Q Got it. So would you, you know, help pay for other Proud Boys using that 
15 money? 
16 A So the store works kind of like an Amazon. So, like, you could become a 
17 vendor if you sold --if you wanted to sell merchandise, you could sell merchandise on the 
18 site. 
19 
20 Q 
A No. I was asking, had you --
Oh, no. No, I'm not --I wasn't --I wasn't pitching you. I wasn't pitching 
21 you on selling stuff on my site. I'm saying, like, an individual could come in and be like, 
22 "Hey, I sell these shirts. Can I put them on your site?", and I'd say, "Yes." 
23 
24 
25 Q Uh-huh. 
A So they could technically, like, sell on the site. 
Q Got it. So not all the merchandise that's being sold on 1776.shop is made  1 by you? 
2 
3 
4 A 
Q 
A Yeah. Yeah. 
Does a portion of the other profits go to you? 
I would charge a small percentage. I think it was, like, 7 percent or 
5 8 percent or something like that. 
6 
7 Q Got it. 
But, no, I was asking about the, kind of, pot of money that resulted from the 65 
8 business. And you said that you would occasionally use it to travel for Proud Boys stuff. 
9 A Uh-huh. 
10 Q Would you, you know, pay for other Proud Boys' travel using that? 
11 
12 
13 
14 A 
Q No. Not that I remember. I don't think I've ever paid for anybody's travel. 
Got it. 
Do the Proud Boys have a bank --
Mr. Hull. Just a question or a comment, objection point. Are your questions 
15 here about the extent or inquiring into the extent to which his businesses are somehow 
16 involved in the financing and funding of nefarious, underground, right-wing activities that 
17 the Proud Boys have sometimes been accused of? I'm just trying to figure out what 
18 we're doing here. 
Mr. Hull, you can characterize it however you like. I'm -- 19 
20 Mr. Hull. He's not --I'm asking what the question's about. It's like, you know, 
21 you asked, you know, look, Tarrio sells T-shirts, and he's getting all these people to come 
22 to January 6th. I mean, those are unfair questions. And you asked him a couple of 
23 different times. 
24 What's the point? I mean, he said he's an entrepreneur, he said's that he has a 
25 shop. And you're trying to make it some kind of, you know, a front for evil in America.  66 
1 I just don't think that's fair. 
2 And it's --and he's said he knows Proud Boys. Well, of course he knows Proud 
3 Boys. He's been popular with a lot of them for a long time, so they would use his 
4 services or do this or that. And you guys, actually three times, asked whether or not 
5 funds were used from that business to fund trips? Come on. I mean, you know, can 
6 you move on from that? 
7 I really don't think that he's presented anything here today to make it, you know, 
8 seem like he was --if you're trying to get the truth, why don't you ask him about --we're 
9 letting you ask --he already answered some questions about some fairly harmless things. 
10 At least you get a flavor of this --
11 Mr. Hull, is there an objection that you have? 
12 Mr. Hull. Yeah, there is an objection. I need you to quit asking questions that 
13 tie his entire life to the funding of some weird cartoon character that has been made up 
14 in some corners of the American mind and media and, you know, making him responsible 
15 for things that happened January 6th. 
16 I mean, we could get back to January 6th, but you asked him three times whether 
17 there were finances that came out of that business to fund Proud Boy trips. I mean, you 
18 know --
19 Mr. Hull, I asked several times because I didn't get an answer the 
20 first or second time, but he did answer the third time, and I appreciate that. 
21 I'm not --I don't quite think you're making an objection that's directed to --
22 Mr. Hull. That's not true. Why don't you ask him some questions that, you 
23 know, are fair and based on the record you have so far, rather than just sort of trying to 
24 malign and smear him? And --
25 Mr. Hull, I'm just asking questions related to the investigation.  67 
1 You can characterize them however you want, and you can --
2 Mr. Hull. It's obvious from these questions that you decided a long time 
3 ago --you guys decided a long time ago what you wanted to decide and investigate and 
4 what conclusions you would come to about Mr. Tarrio and the Proud Boys, and you had 
5 that in mind. That's not fact-finding. That's just, you know, constitutionally protected, 
6 you know, character assassination and smearing. And, frankly, he's used to it. 
7 But I think you can kind of, you know, move into some scenarios that, you know, 
8 makes some sense or have something to do with the committee, rather than just trying 
9 to, you know, lull him into this idea that he somehow is --whole life is --
10 ~ Mr. Hull, with all due respect, we will determine what is relevant 
11 to the investigation, and we're asking questions to that end. I don't think anything I've 
12 asked has been particularly burdensome. I'm asking --
13 
14 
15 Mr. Hull. Not burdensome. That's --
--simply about his finances right now. 
Mr. Hull. They're just --they're --again, they're unnecessary, and, you know, 
16 obviously sort of inflammatory. Why don't you try to find out some things about what 
17 happened if you're going to ask him these questions, rather than just, you know, make it 
18 seem as though --
19 Mr. Hull, we've now spent 4 minutes during which you've failed 
20 to state an objection. And you're entitled to state something for the record. 
21 Mr. Hull. I'm objecting --
22 But if you're instructing the witness not to answer the question, 
23 I'd like to get a sense of what --
24 
25 Mr. Hull. No, no. I'm not --
The court reporter is not going to be able to get this, guys. Can  68 
1 we just calm down for a moment? 
2 
3 
4 Mr. Hull. You calm down. 
You need to ask --
I'm saying for both folks, can we just be careful so the court 
5 reporter can hear, so that we're not talking over top of each other? That's all I'm asking. 
6 
7 Mr. Hull. Fair enough. And I apologize. 
I'd like to make an objection to questions that seem to want to paint Mr. Tarrio as 
8 some kind of secret financier, even on a small level, of bad things. And you asked him 
9 that question --one time is fine. You asked him three times. 
10 You know, the Proud Boys didn't do an insurrection. It's not what they do. 
11 They drink. They had their picture taken. They look for antifa at night, that's true. 
12 They're basically, you know, a satirical kind of goofy group of people who have political 
13 ideas and discovered antifa, and that became a free occupation. 
14 But the January 6th march of the Proud Boys is the fourth march in 6 months of 
15 the Proud Boys, and it was the exact same pattern: Go to the Capitol, go up to the 
16 Supreme Court, go back down Constitution to the Russell Building, go each lunch maybe 
17 over by the Department of Labor, and stop. 
18 And you seem to want to get --1 mean, for a while, I thought we were going to be 
19 able to end this, but now you want to go back to, like, finding out about whether or not 
20 he uses his money from his businesses to finance things that you think are bad? 
21 Well, Mr. Hull, I will say, the committee's made no prejudgment as 
22 to Mr. Tarrio's involvement in January 6th, but, I mean, you all were well aware of the 
23 public reporting around Mr. Tarrio and January 6th, and we have an obligation to 
24 investigate that and, you know, follow the facts where they go. 
25 And if Mr. Tarrio's assertion is that, as he said, he has nothing to do with January  69 
1 6th and he wasn't there and he doesn't know anything about it, I mean, we're happy to 
2 ask those questions that are about January 6th specifically. But our understanding was 
3 that you all were going to object on Fifth Amendment grounds for that day, which I 
4 understand and is his right. So we're trying to ask some questions so we can --
5 Mr. Hull. Not every --not every question that you pose to him will have an 
6 objection. 
7 The Witness. I never said that I was going to object to every question with the 
8 Fifth Amendment. I said that I was going to listen to the question, and I would make a 
9 decision on --
10 No. And I understand that, Mr. Tarrio. I did not mean to 
11 misstate. But I know, when we first started this, Mr. Hull said he expected that you 
12 would plead the Fifth Amendment with regards to almost everything we would ask, and 
13 he thought it would go very quickly. 
14 So, based on that, my understanding was, if we asked you something specifically 
15 about January 6th, that we were not going to have any sort of conversation. And so 
16 we're trying to have conversations about other topics, not specifically January 6th, but, 
17 you know, in that penumbra, that might be useful for us to understand your involvement 
18 or lack thereof in that event so that, you know, this report will be as accurate as it can be. 
19 We are not coming to any pre-decision about this. If you would like to talk 
20 specifically about January 6th and are willing to provide some testimony on that, we're 
21 happy to go in that direction. 
22 But, Mr. Hull, I know you keep asking for us to talk more specifically about 
23 January 6th, but you've already told us you're going to object. So we're trying not to 
24 harass your client on that front. 
25 Mr. Hull. I think --no, I think it's fair. You know, you have a --what you're  70 
1 doing is guided by a very liberal, freewheeling kind of precept. You can ask some 
2 questions that might link to this, might lead to that. 
3 But the Fifth Amendment privilege being asserted here was presupposed that the 
4 questions would be about January 6th, violence on January 6th, and conspiracy on 
5 January 6th. And, you know, now we're asking questions about, you know, getting 
6 money to Proud Boys so that they can go to the Capitol and do whatever people want to 
7 think that they did. 
8 I just --you know, of course not every question is going to be a Fifth Amendment 
9 response, but it would be if you sort of stayed to what I understand to be the task of the 
10 committee. And, you know, that's of course --you have to do that the way you want to 
11 do. But if you ask the questions about January 6th, conspiracies, his involvement, 
12 inciting violence, things like that, which was pretty clearly what Bennie Thompson had in 
13 mind when he wrote that letter, there would be Fifth Amendment answers. 
14 But now we're kind of getting into the wild blue yonder. And I think it's a fair 
15 thing to raise. You can keep asking a few more questions on this. But, you know, this, 
16 you know, getting to know you and the wonder of Enrique, and all of a sudden using that 
17 money to, like, you know, fly any of these White trash dingbats to Washington? Come 
18 on. This --you know, move forward --
19 Mr. Hull, with all due respect, we never called anybody a White 
20 trash dingbat. We never asked him to --
21 Mr. Hull. I'll tell you --I think --
22 --on January 6th. So let's just take the temperature down, and 
23 I'm going to turn it back over to We've heard your concerns, and we'll 
24 take those into account. Thank you. 
25 The Witness. I think I'm the only one that mentioned the White kids so far.  Thanks for clearing that up, Mr. Tarrio. 
The Witness. Okay. 
BY 
Is the Western Chauvinist Telegram an official Proud Boys channel? 
No. It's definitely not --not one. 
Have you disavowed it? Has the group disavowed it? 71 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 Q 
A 
Q 
A I think that somebody put a statement on, like, the Proud Boys' official, like, 
8 Telegram channel stating that it is not. And I think that was, like, 2 years ago. 
9 Because they were attempting --before it was called Western Chauvinist, I believe 
10 it was called, like, Proud Boys America First or whatever. And we have no idea who 
11 started it. But it got --I don't know why, but it got a lot of traction, and they were 
12 saying a lot of racist crap. And it started becoming, like, an issue, because reporters 
13 would ask me --or reporters would report that "this is what the Proud Boys said." And, 
14 yeah, it --it --it wasn't. 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 Mr. Hull. You answered the question. 
BY 
Q Do you have a role in the "War Boys" show? 
A I'm one of the hosts, yeah. 
Q Can you tell me about what the "War Boys" show is? 
A It's similar to, like, all my podcasts. It's basically --we treat it as, like, two 
21 guys on a couch. We'll talk about politics a little bit. We'll talk about, like, pickup 
22 trucks, beer, women, experiences that we've had. And then sometimes we'll have, like, 
23 a guest on of some sort. 
24 
25 Q Yeah. Who are the co-hosts? 
A Ethan Nordean and Joseph Biggs.  72 
Mr. Hull. How long did that run, that show? 1 
2 The Witness. We did, like --he was asking how many, like, episodes. I think we 
3 got to, like, seven or eight episodes of it, I believe. 
4 
5 
6 
7 Mr. Hull. You can tell them. I didn't think it was a long --a big deal. 
The Witness. No. We had it just for a little while. 
Sorry. Go ahead. 
Yeah. I'd just ask, Mr. Hull, if you say something that you'd like 
8 on the record, just to please come close to the microphone so the reporter can hear --
9 
10 
11 Mr. Hull. I apologize. I shouldn't have done that. I just thought -­
--to capture it. 
Mr. Hull. You know, I don't want to ask him questions, but I'm sorry, I just 
12 thought I should add that. 
13 Sure. 
14 B~ 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 Q Were there episodes that you weren't on? 
A You know, I don't know. Maybe. 
Mr. Hull. "War Boys." 
Q Were you familiar with Joe Biggs' comment in December 2020 that 
20 government officials are, quote, "evil scum and they all deserve to die a traitor's death," 
21 end quote? 
A I have no idea. You might want to ask Joe about that. I -- 22 
23 
24 Q So you've never watched that episode? 
A I don't recall anything like that. But, again, that's --that would be more a 
25 question for him.  1 
2 
3 
4 Mr. Hull. When was the date? Excuse me. 
December 2020. 
[Discussion off the record.] 
The Witness. I don't know. I can't remember. I don't --I'm not --my 73 
5 memory --just to tell you, like, I have probably, like, the worst memory of anybody you've 
6 ever met. So --but, yeah, I don't remember that. And, again, that would be probably 
7 a question more for him than for me. 
8 BY 
9 Q I mean, you're a co-host of the show. What do you think of something like 
10 that on your show? 
11 A I can't --I'm just not going to give you an opinion on something that 
12 somebody else said. I'm a free-speech dude, and I think that, you know, even people I 
13 disagree with have the right to free speech. So --
14 
15 
16 
17 Q 
A 
Q 
A Sure. But, I mean, you have some -­
That's my general opinion. 
You have some level of ownership over the show, right? You're a co-host? 
No. Painting me as just, like, guilt by association isn't really something I'm 
18 going to comment on. 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q Do you disagree with what he said? 
I don't know if he said it, so --
Do you disagree with that statement? 
I don't have that in front of me, so I --
1 can read it over to you. Government officials are, quote, "evil scum, and 
24 they all deserve to die a traitor's death," end quote. Do you agree with that? 
25 A You'd have to ask Biggs on that. I don't know.  Q 
A I'm asking you, Mr. Tarrio, do you agree with that quote? 
I'm --I'm not going to --I'm not going to opine on what someone --
Mr. Hull. I think he said he didn't know. 74 
1 
2 
3 
4 Mr. Hull, he's said he wouldn't answer, which is different from "I 
5 don't know." I'm asking for his opinion on that statement. 
6 Mr. Hull. I may be mistaken, but I thought he said he wasn't sure what was said 
7 on the show and that --and --
8 The Witness. Look, I can't confirm if he said it. If you're asking me what my 
9 opinion is on what everybody says, I'm not going to do that. I'm not going into that 
10 rabbit hole of do I agree with X statement. 
11 I could tell you that I've disagreed with statements made by Bennie Thompson, or 
12 I probably disagreed with the Congresswoman that was just here. I don't remember 
13 calling her a c-u-n-t, but --I'm not going down that rabbit hole of what do I think of what 
14 this person said. It's just not --
15 
16 Q Okay. Well, let me rephrase it, then, because I get what you're saying. 
17 It's hard to opine on what other people say. 
18 Do you think government officials are evil scum who deserve to die a traitor's 
19 death? 
20 A No. I can't tell you that I --that I agree with it. Do I think some of them 
21 are scum? Maybe when they make decisions --poor decisions, yeah. But that's about 
22 as far as it goes. 
23 
24 Q 
A 
25 to happen. And do those scum have --do they need to die a traitor's death? 
Look, listen, you're not going to hook me onto this leash. It's just not going  75 
1 Mr. Hull. I mean, I say that before every Mets game. Come on. I mean, a lot 
2 of venting was going on between November 3rd and --I think you said that was in late 
3 December, and people said things they probably wish they hadn't said. But it means 
4 they're --
5 
6 
7 
8 The Witness. Here, I'll give you --
Q 
A Mr. Tarrio, did you say stuff you wish you hadn't said? 
I'm not a law man. I'm not a lawyer or anything. I disagree with 
9 somebody running a committee that personally sued me about a year ago. You know, 
10 what's your opinion? Can I ask you what's your opinion? Should I be deposed by a 
11 committee led by somebody that has a civil lawsuit or had a civil lawsuit against me and 
12 can jump back in whenever he wants? 
Q 
A 
Q I wish this were a forum where you could interview me. 
I know. 
Unfortunately I'm interviewing you. 13 
14 
15 
16 So, after Joe Biggs made that quote, Ethan Nordean responded, quote, "Yep, day 
17 of the rope," end quote. Do you know what that means? 
18 
19 
20 A 
Q 
A I have no idea what that means. 
Have you ever heard of "The Turner Diaries"? 
I've heard of "The Turner Diaries," and now that you say it, I remember that 
21 that's, like, attributed to it. But, again, I'm not going to give you my opinion on what 
22 people say. 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A 
Q Do you know what "day of the rope" is? 
You can ask Ethan Nordean what he meant by it. 
Do you know what "day of the rope" means?  1 
2 
3 
4 used? A 
Q 
A 76 
I don't know. Enlighten me. 
In "The Turner Diaries," it was a mass lynching of race traitors. 
And was that the only instance that that "day of the rope" thing was ever 
5 Q Well, it was right after Joe Biggs said government officials are evil scum who 
6 deserve to die a traitor's death. 
7 A You might want to ask --you might want to ask them about that. 
8 Mr. Hull. So they were angry about something. We're trying to figure out 
9 whether or not they really would've done it? Is that it? 
10 The Witness. Well, here, I mean, regardless of the fact, they're --they would 
11 depose them if they want an opinion on it. So I'm just not going to --I'm not 
12 here --look, how about this? From now forward, I'm just not going to give you my 
13 personal opinion on what somebody else said. I just --I don't think that that's even 
14 relevant here. 
15 You could ask me direct questions, and if I feel like I could answer them, I'll answer 
16 them. If I feel like it's a trick question, then I'll tell you. I'll be honest with you. But 
17 I'm just not going to go down this rabbit hole where you're going to ask me if I agree with 
18 everybody that --everybody's statements around the country, or even friends of mine. 
19 don't --it's not my problem. 
20 BY 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A Have you ever met Stewart Rhodes? 
Give me one second. 
Mr. Hull. Yeah. 
[Discussion off the record.] 
The Witness. All right. Repeat the question.  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 Q 
A 
Q 
A Have you ever met Stewart Rhodes? 
Yes. I met Stewart Rhodes on January 5th. 
In what context? 
It was the first time I ever seen Rhodes, and I didn't --I didn't go to meet 77 
6 Rhodes. He just happened to be there. I went to go meet up with a friend of mine, 
7 Bianca, at the Phoenix Park Hotel. And that's the garage that's right next to it, and she 
8 just happened to be with Stewart Rhodes at the time. 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 Q Got it. Did you talk to Mr. Rhodes? 
A I just shook his hand and I said hello. And --
Q That's all you talked to him about? 
A I'm sorry? 
Q That's all you talked to him about? 
A Yeah. I just shook his hand, and I said hello. There was actually a 
15 documentary crew that was with us at Channel 4, a U.K. documentary crew, that was with 
16 us, and they recorded that handshake. And then, after, when we got in the car, they 
17 asked me --it's on tape. And I said, yes, that's the first time I meet Rhodes. 
18 I wasn't --and, just to give you back story, me and Stewart Rhodes don't --didn't 
19 get along, or don't get along for a very long time, since 2019. As a matter of fact, I've 
20 only had a one-way conversation with Stewart Rhodes before, in 2019, and I used very, 
21 very colorful language and messaging with Rhodes back in 2019. I dropped a lot of 
22 F-bombs, different versions of the F-bomb. And then, after that, I called that whole 
23 Oath Keepers group the "Oath Breakers." 
24 
25 Q Got it. Can you give me a sense of why that happened? 
A I had a rally --in 2019, I was putting together a rally in Portland, and he was  78 
1 supposed to be our transport where we were --like, I had this --there was about 300 or 
2 400 attendees, and we wanted to move them from one location to another. And 
3 Stewart had said in a chatroom that he has a lot of buses and stuff like that and he could 
4 move these people. And he pulled out on us last-minute. So could you imagine sitting 
5 in a street corner with 300 people, and all these people are ordering Ubers. It was next 
6 to impossible to get these people out of the city of Portland. 
7 So I had some very colorful language, but, ever since then, I did not talk to Stewart 
8 Rhodes. I didn't like Stewart Rhodes. I still don't like Stewart Rhodes. And after all 
9 that time, the first time that --and I've never --I never met him in person that day. It 
10 was just that exchange of those messages, those one-way messages between 
11 me --between --that I sent him. 
12 And then the very next time that I ever meet Rhodes --and I didn't want to be 
13 rude --was I shook his hand, and I said, "Nice to meet you." 
14 Mr. Hull. The very next time you talked to him. 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 The Witness. That was the very next time I talked to him. 
Mr. Hull. Yeah. 
Got it. 
I see my colleague came on video. 
do you have a question? 
Yes. 
B~ 
Q Mr. Tarrio, did you also talk to Ms. Kellye SoRelle that night in that garage 
23 meeting? 
24 A So I didn't know Kellye SoRelle was Kellye SoRelle until much, much later, 
25 when, like, the pictures of --the video of that documentary came out.  1 Kellye SoRelle was there. I don't remember exchanging words with her. 
2 didn't know what she looked like until later on. 
3 - can we play exhibit 45, please, just to refresh 
4 Mr. Tarrio's recollection? 
5 And please just bear with us while we pull this up. 
6 
7 The Witness. And where do I see this? 
It will be up on your screen in a second. We'll pull it up in a 
8 second. Thank you. 
[Video shown.] 
The Witness. Is there supposed to be audio? 
I don't believe so. 
The Witness. Okay. 
Mr. Hull. Is that in back of the Phoenix Park? 
The Witness. No. It's, like, a garage next-door. 
[Discussion off the record.] 
~ All right,_ you can take it down now. Thank you. 
BY 79 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 Q So we saw Ms. Kellye SoRelle in that video. I know you didn't know her at 
19 the time, but what were you discussing with her in the garage? 
20 A I can't remember. I think that the way that that --Bianca had said, "Hey, 
21 I've got a lawyer" or whatever. And I had told her already that I had one. And then 
22 maybe she offered her services, but I don't even remember that. 
23 I'll be completely honest. Like, that was such a quick transaction, and, like, my 
24 anxiety was through the roof because, you know, I'd just got out of jail and I had to get 
25 out of the city. So I had to pick up my bags at the Phoenix Park that day.  80 
1 So the only person that --the only person in that video that I've met, like, previous 
2 times is Bianca and --I can't even tell you his name. 
3 
4 
5 Q 
A 
Q Josh Macias? 
Josh. Yeah. 
So maybe this might --maybe this might refresh a little bit too. Were you 
6 worried about law enforcement reading your group chat with other Proud Boys, since 
7 they had confiscated your materials? 
8 
9 A 
Q I don't remember any of that. 
You don't remember discussing, you know, law enforcement reading a group 
10 message with other Proud Boys? 
11 
12 
13 
14 she? 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 A 
Q I don't remember that. 
Okay. 
I feel like there was a woman in that video named Ms. Amy Harris. Who was 
A 
Q 
A Documentary filmmaker. 
When did you meet Ms. Harris? 
Give me one second. 
[Discussion off the record.] 
The Witness. So I met Amy back in --supposedly --I didn't know this, but I met 
20 Amy back in September 26 in Portland when I was there. 
21 BY 
22 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A 
Q 
A And what was nature of your relationship with Ms. Harris? 
She picked me in November to do a photo doc, and I agreed. 
So why was Ms. Harris here in the garage with you on January 5th? 
She was documenting --when I got out of jail, she was documenting me  81 
1 when I got out of jail. So she wanted to document the whole thing. 
2 Q So I guess, when you get out of jail on January 5th, how did she even come 
3 into the picture? Did you call her? 
4 A She was waiting for me outside, because I had --it was public information of 
5 what time I had court. 
6 Q Okay. So she picks you up at the jail, and where do you go from there? 
7 I'm assuming you're with Ms. Harris at this point, correct? 
8 
9 
10 A 
Q 
A Yeah. 
So where do you all go after you leave the jail? 
I go to the Phoenix Park to pick up --she had to go pick up her bags. The 
11 other camera crew had some bags there. So we went to Phoenix Park so they could pick 
12 that up. And then Bianca was there, and that's when we went to the garage down 
13 there. 
14 Q So what was --I don't believe we've asked this. What's your relationship 
15 with Ms. Bianca Gracia as well? How do you know her? 
16 A From the Latinos for Trump organization. At that time, I was the Florida 
17 State director for Latinos for Trump. 
18 Q And were you talking to Ms. Gracia about events on January 5th or 6th when 
19 you met up with her? 
20 
21 A 
Q 
22 January 6th? 
23 A I can't remember at that time. 
Were you supposed to be a speaker at one of Ms. Gracia's events on 
I don't think --so I think she --I think she canceled the event, so technically 
24 no. But, yeah, at one point, I was asked to speak on the stage that I remember. 
25 Q So are you saying here today the event was canceled on January 5th, or  82 
1 did it --canceled on January 5th? 
2 A I mean, I think I was pretty clear with that. I said I'm not sure, but I think 
3 that that was canceled. 
Q But, preliminarily, you were scheduled to speak at her event? 
A I'm sorry? 
Q Preliminarily, you were scheduled to speak at her event? 
A If I remember, yeah. 4 
5 
6 
7 
8 Q Were you scheduled to speak at any events on January 5th, such as the rally 
9 at Freedom Plaza or any other events? 
10 
11 
12 A I believe I was supposed to speak at an event on January 5th, yes. 
Q Which one? 
A I don't --I don't know. I had so many people calling me asking me to speak 
13 at their events, and I know one of them said the Freedom Plaza. So I don't know --
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 Q You don't remember who invited you to speak at the Freedom Plaza event? 
A No. 
Q Was it Mr. Ali Alexander? 
A No, definitely not. 
Q Was it Ms. Amy Kremer? 
A I don't even know who that is. 
Q Ms. Kylie Kremer? 
A I don't know who that is. 
Q Mr. Ed Martin? 
A Name doesn't ring a bell. 
Q Anybody from "Stop the Steal," the organization, invite you to speak on 
25 January 5th?  1 
2 
3 
4 A I didn't even know that "Stop the Steal" was an organization. 
Q Was it Mr. Roger Stone? 
A That one's absolutely not. 
Q Okay. So is your testimony here today you don't remember who invited 
5 you to speak on January 5th? 
6 
7 A Yeah, I don't. 
Q Was it an email communication or was it over the phone that you were 
8 coordinated with? 
A It was over the phone. 83 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 Q Okay. And what was the phone number they called you with at the time? 
A I have, like, two phone numbers that ring on my phone, so --but, technically, 
I always give everybody my number. 
Q Do you recall when they called you to speak on January 5th? Was it, like, at 
14 the end of December, or was it closer to the actual date? 
15 
16 A I have no idea. 
Q Okay. 
17 And I'd like to note for the record that Mr. Pete Aguilar has joined 
18 the deposition. 
19 B~ 
20 
21 
22 Q When you left the garage with Ms. Harris, where did you all go? 
A We went to a hotel in Baltimore. 
Q Do you recall Ms. Gracia asking why you would go to a hotel in Baltimore 
23 rather than stay closer to the city? 
24 
25 A I have no idea. I don't know. 
Q Why were you staying in a hotel in Baltimore rather than closer to the city?  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 A I'm sorry? 
Q Why would you stay in a hotel in Baltimore rather than closer to the city? 
A Because Baltimore has another airport. 
Q So you flew home when you left Maryland to go back to Florida? 
A I think you know the answer to that. I don't know why 
6 you're asking --
7 
8 Q 
A Mr. Tarrio, I'm asking a question --
No, you're not. You're asking questions you know the answer to on 
9 purpose. I -
10 Q Did you fly home from Maryland to Florida is the question currently --
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 A I was --excuse me. You need to let me finish my answer. 
Mr. Hull. Listen to his question. 
The Witness. No, he needs to let me finish my answer. 
Mr. Hull. Oh, sorry. All right. 
The Witness. So I had the intention of flying back, and I decided not to. 
16 decided to drive back. 
17 BY 
Q Who did you drive back with? 
A I drove back with Amy Harris. 
Q How did you get the car to drive back with Ms. Harris? 84 
18 
19 
20 
21 A I have no --I have no idea how. Either she rented it or --or whatnot. She 
22 wanted --
23 Q I guess, going back to the night of the 5th, did you all make any stops on the 
24 way to Baltimore? 
25 A Not that I remember.  Do you recall Ms. Harris buying you a burner phone on January 5th? 
I don't remember that. 85 
1 
2 
3 Q 
A 
Q Did you --you didn't have your own phone. Did you make any phone calls 
4 the night of January 5th? 
5 A I don't know. I don't --I --honestly, I don't remember anything that 
6 happened that night. But it was just driving to the --to the hotel. 
7 Mr. Hull. Hold on. 
8 [Discussion off the record.] 
9 Mr. Hull. I'm sorry. What was the last question, 
10 Mr. I asked did he recall Ms. Harris buying him a burner phone the 
11 night of January 5th. 
12 Mr. Hull. January 5th, after he was out of jail and didn't have a phone. Is that 
13 right? 
14 Mr.- That's correct. At least that's what I understand from what he 
15 said. 
16 Mr. Hull. ---
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 The Witness. Give me one second. 
Thank you. That's fine. 
[Discussion off the record.] 
The Witness. So, why do you call it a burner phone? 
Q 
A BY 
Did she buy you a prepaid phone, Mr. Tarrio? 
Okay. No, that's just what I wanted to ask. I told you I already --I don't 
24 remember that. 
25 Q Okay. And then my second question was, do you recall making any phone  1 calls the night of January 5th? 
2 
3 
4 
5 A I don't recall that. 
- can you pull up exhibit 38 and go to page 11, please? 
The Witness. Oh, man. 
Mr. Hull. I should've asked this earlier, but I assume --when you refreshed his 
6 recollection. But I assume this --with this film. I assume this document was a 
7 document that you intended to send to me last night? 
8 It should've been in the file. 
9 Can you go to the first page first,_, so the witness can --so this is the 
10 indictment of Ethan Nordean, Joseph Biggs, Zachary Rehl, and Charles Donohoe --all 
11 right --filed March 10th, 2021. 
12 And can we go to page 11? 
13 So, at the bottom, in paragraph 48, it says, "At 9:17 p.m., Biggs," as in 86 
14 Mr. Joseph Biggs, "posted a message on the new MSOD that read, 'We just had a meeting 
15 with a lot of guys; info should be coming out,' and then posted, 'Just spoke with [first 
16 name of Proud Boys chairman],"' which we understand to be you, Mr. Tarrio. 
17 "At approximately 9:20 p.m., Biggs posted a message that read, 'We have a plan. 
18 I'm with Rufio.' Donohoe responded, 'What's the plan so I can pass it?"' 
19 Can we please go to the next page? 
20 And then, to the MOSD guys, Biggs responded, "I gave [the first name of Proud 
21 Boys chairman] a plan, the one I told the guys, and he said he had one." 
22 So can we close this exhibit,_, and now open up exhibit 42? 
23 
24 
25 The Witness. So I'm going to need the little boys' room in a little bit. 
Mr. Hull. Okay. 
The Witness. Just let him finish showing this.  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 [Discussion off the record.] 
The Witness. I'm going to go off the record. 
That's fine. We'll pull up exhibit 42 while you all mute. 
[Discussion off the record.] 
- are you pulling up exhibit 42? 
- Yeah. I was waiting. 
Okay. 
So --I'll go when you're ready, Mr. Tarrio. 
The Witness. Can we zoom in a little bit on this? 
We will. We will. 
So zoom in a little bit, 
Mr. Hull. Can you read it? 87 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 Is it not zooming in? You might have to zoom in on the actual -­
The Witness. Okay. Can you just tell me what I'm supposed to --
Yeah. It's your call detail records, Mr. Tarrio, for your phone 
16 number. 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 The Witness. My phone number? 
Yeah. 
The Witness. Okay. 
And so, if we go to page 115 -­
The Witness. Uh-huh. Okay. 
22 --at the top, there's a call from --and I'm pulling it up on my own 
23 so I can read the number, but it looks like■--hold on. 
24 Can we zoom in a little bit more,_ 
25 The Witness. Well, you can just --you can just read it out to me. What is it?  88 
1 It's not going to zoom in because you have it --because of the browser you have it on. 
2 Really, you're just increasing the size --
3 Mr.- So it's a number from 
The Witness. Okay. 4 
5 Mr.- We believe that number to be Mr. Joseph Biggs. The call comes 
6 in at 2:07:15 UTC time, which is --
7 The Witness. Hold on. 
8 
9 
10 
11 Mr~ --about 10 minutes before 9:17 UTC --
The Witness. 
Mr.- Yes? 
The Witness. You just mentioned my phone number and said that that's 
12 Joe Biggs' phone number. 
13 
14 Oh, I apologize. I said the wrong number. 
Mr. Hull. And one question- What date? What date? The 5th? 
15 ~"'-="""-'-""" It's the 5th, but since this is UTC time, it goes into the morning of 
16 January 6th. 
17 Mr. Hull. All right. Okay. 
18 The Witness. Uh-huh. 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 And it's th.number. 
The Witness. Okay. 
Mr. Hull. And you had --
I'm sorry. I apologize for that. 
The Witness. Here's the thing. Like, what --I'm trying to simplify -­
We can close this. We can close,_ 
BY  89 
Q The question is, did you talk to Mr. Biggs on the night of January 5th? 
A The night of January 5th. But what --
Q Yes. 1 
2 
3 
4 A --does that have to do with my phone records? Because I have no phone. 
5 I had no --
6 Q It's a simple question, Mr. Tarrio. Did you speak to Mr. Biggs on the night 
7 of January 5th? 
8 A I already answered that question for you. I said I don't remember speaking 
9 to Mr. Biggs at that time. 
10 But my phone records --like, you just showed me that, like, I called somebody on 
11 the 5th at night when Metropolitan Police Department had my phone. So, like, 
12 I'm --maybe I'm not seeing something here, but I definitely didn't call anybody from a 
13 phone that I didn't have. 
14 Can we have a one-second recess? We can come back and have 
15 the exhibit straight. I just want to make sure I have it straight for Mr. Tarrio. So let's 
16 take a --
17 I believe Mr. Tarrio had also wanted a personal break --
18 
19 The Witness. Yeah. 
--a nature break. So why don't we go off the record for about 
20 10 minutes? 
21 Let's take a 5-minute break and then come right back. 
22 The Witness. Okay. 
23 [Recess.] 
24 So can we pull back up exhibit 42,_, and go back to the 
25 top of 115?  1 
2 Q And I apologize, Mr. Tarrio. I had asked the wrong question. The 
3 question I wanted to ask you is: 9:17 p.m., that would be around 2:17 a.m. on 
4 January 6th, UTC time. 
5 
6 A Right. 
Q These are your phone records, and we do not see a call from Mr. Biggs. 
7 However, this indictment says that he spoke to the leader of the Proud Boys. 
8 So did you speak to him using a prepaid phone? 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 A 
Q 
A No. I could tell you I didn't speak to him using a prepaid phone. 
Did you speak to him in any kind of capacity on the night of January 5th? 
I probably did, but I'm not 100 percent sure. 
You can close out ofthat-
The Witness. I'm sure --I'm pretty sure. Huh? Go ahead. 
BY 
Q I was telling- he could close the exhibit. 
You said you're pretty sure you talked to him on the night of January 5th? 
A I'm pretty sure, like, I would call him. I just --I can't tell you that I 
18 remember exactly if I called him or not, but I'm pretty sure I would. 
Q And did you talk --so you talked to him on the night of January 5th? 
A I just --
Q Yeah. 
A --gave it to you. I'm not going to repeat --
Q What did you talk to him about on the night of January 5th, Mr. Tarrio? 90 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 A I just got out of jail, and I told him that I was --I would tell him that I'm okay. 
I know I had that conversation with him. I believe I had that conversation with  91 
1 him not at night. I think it was probably when I got out. You know, and he asked me 
2 your typical dude questions: Happy to be out? How the fuck was it in there? You 
3 know, things like that. 
4 But, as to the thing in that indictment with the whole plan thing, yeah, that didn't 
5 happen. 
6 Q Okay. 
7 Did you speak to any other Proud Boys other than Mr. Biggs? 
8 A Probably not. I probably --there would be --if I --when I got out of jail, 
9 there are probably two people that I'd call first. It'd probably be, like, my mother and 
10 my sister. And then I probably gave a call --I gave a call to Biggs at some point there. 
11 don't think it was at night, but yeah. 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 Q Who was with you when you were taking these calls? 
A The whole documentary crew. 
Q Was Ms. Harris also with you? 
A That's who the documentary --part of the documentary crew. 
Q Oh. So she was part of, like, the --the same documentary crew? 
17 A Well, there's --there was two and at one point there was three documentary 
18 crews. One was --when I was outside the Phoenix, there was a third documentary crew 
19 there that did, like, a little quick interview while everybody grabbed their bags and stuff. 
20 But between --and I can't tell you the name of the U.K. documentary crew, but it was 
21 Amy --the U.K. crew, and --
22 
23 
24 
25 Mr. Hull. Nick Quested. 
The Witness. Nick what? 
Mr. Hull. Nick Quested. 
The Witness. Nick Quested is what Dan says.  92 
3 Q Where was Mr. Biggs or Mr. Nordean --then where were they saying the 
4 night of January 5th? 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q You'd have to ask them that. 
You don't recall what hotel they were staying at? 
No. 
That never came up in discussions about what hotels they were staying at? 
No. Just I stay at --every time I come to D.C., I stay at the Phoenix. 
Do you recall in the garage meeting on January 5th with Ms. Gracia where 
11 you said you wanted to stay close to the guys, that's why you wanted to stay in 
12 Maryland? 
13 
14 A 
Q I --probably so, yeah. I probably said that. 
So if you said you wanted to stay close to the guys, how did you not know 
15 where they were staying? 
16 A Because, I mean, I don't know --I don't know if you're local to D.C., but you 
17 don't --you guys really don't have a big city. You could drive across it within, like, 
18 10 minutes. So anywhere --Virginia is close. Maryland's close. So that constitutes 
19 close. 
20 
21 Q 
A You consider Baltimore close to D.C., where they might have been staying? 
Coming from a place where I have to drive 2 hours to commute across a city, 
22 yeah, I'd say that's pretty close. 
23 Q So Mr. Biggs, Mr. Nordean, were they staying in D.C.? Were they staying in 
24 Virginia? Do you know where, which State? 
25 A This is just me -- 93 
Mr. Hull. Don't guess. 
The Witness. --saying --well, if I can't guess, I can't tell you. How's that? 
BY 1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 Q Okay. Were there any other Proud Boys that stayed with you in Baltimore? 
A No. Nobody stayed with me in Baltimore. 
Q Okay. Did any other Proud Boys stay in the same, like, vicinity as you at all 
7 in the hotel? 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 A No. 
Q Okay. So it was just you --
A It was just me --
Q --and the documentary crew? 
A --and the two documentary crews, yep. 
Q Okay. Ms. Harris --did they --they stayed in the same hotel with you, 
14 including Ms. Harris? 
15 
16 
17 A Yes. 
Q Gotcha. 
, unless --I know you had more questions. We can 
18 either go back to where you left off, or we can continue. No matter --it's up to you. 
19 You can go ahead,-· 
20 
21 
22 Okay. 
B~ 
Q So, Mr. Tarrio, I understand that you went to the November 12th rally in 
23 Washington, D.C. Is that correct? 
24 
25 A 
Q That is. November 14th. 
November --so there was a November 14th rally. Did you go to the rally  1 on November 14th in D.C.? 
2 
3 
4 A 
Q 
A Yes, I did. 
Who invited you? How did you become aware of this rally? 
I saw --the event was called the Million MAGA March. I saw a flyer for it 
5 on line, and I just decided to go. 
Did you speak to Mr. Ali Alexander about this event? 
No. 
Okay. Do you know Mr. Ali Alexander? 94 
6 
7 
8 
9 Q 
A 
Q 
A As an acquaintance, I guess. I don't know him very well. I don't think I've 
10 had more than a 5-minute conversation with him. And when we've traveled in a big 
11 group, he's been, like, at the same restaurant as me, and we've been at the same events 
12 together before, but I can't tell you that I know him. 
13 
14 
15 Q 
A 
Q How long, I guess, have you been in the same circles with Mr. Alexander? 
I mean, when you talk about circles, I mean, that's a pretty broad --
How long --when was the first time, I guess, you met Mr. Alexander is a 
16 more specific question. 
17 A He was speaking at a stage in 2017, I believe, at an event in D.C., and that's 
18 the first time I saw him. Never talked to him there. And I don't think I, like, actually 
19 had a conversation with Ali till, I don't know, maybe 2018 at some point, late. 
Q Got it. 20 
21 
22 
23 Did you advertise for the event on November 14th? 
A 
Q 
24 your own? 
25 A I posted that the Proud Boys were gonna go out, yeah. 
I guess, did anyone ask you to advertise for it, or it was something you did on 
No. Nobody ever --nobody really ever asked me to advertise, like, an  95 
1 event or anything. I actually --I dislike even working with other groups. 
2 Q And you said the Proud Boys were going to be in attendance. So how did 
3 you get the word out to the Proud Boys that they were going to come --that they should 
4 come to the rally on November 14th? 
5 A I put the flyer out. And then I had some communications on Telegram 
6 with, like, some of the guys, and they decided to come out. 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 Q Okay. 
Do you remember approximately when you left for D.C. for this rally? 
A No idea. -, can we show exhibit 5, please? 
Mr. Hull. And I take it this would have been one of the three documents besides 
12 the last one we saw --this is the fourth one, I guess. We've seen --
13 
14 ~Yes. 
Mr. Hull. We've seen the garage refresh your recollection. We've seen the 
15 indictment --
16 Yep. The CDR records, the call detail records. And this is the 
17 fourth one. It's a photo, it looks like, of Mr. Tarrio and a group of other individuals in 
18 front of an airplane. 
19 So you can leave it up. 
20 Mr. Hull. And these were --I guess my second question --these questions --or 
21 documents were sent to me last night late to the USAFX depository? 
22 That's correct. 
23 
24 Mr. Hull. The people that --okay. 
We sent over a box. I apologize. So you should've received a 
25 box by us.  96 
Mr. Hull. I get a lot of boxes, so I --
Not an actual box. Like, a website box in a --1 
2 
3 Mr. Hull. I get a lot of boxes from the government cities. "We'd like you to play 
4 in our box," or something like that. 
5 BY 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 Q Do you recognize this photo, Mr. Tarrio? 
A I do. 
Q I guess, is this a jet you took to come to the rally for November 14th? 
A That's correct. 
Q I guess, who organized --or how did you all take the jet to D.C.? 
A I think Bianca was the one that booked a jet for us. I think it was --yeah, it 
12 was definitely Bianca that time that booked the jet. 
13 Mr. Hull. Excuse me. I'm sorry to ask. What's the source of this document? 
14 Where did this come from? 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 The Witness. This is from -­
It's public. 
Mr. Hull. Is it? Okay. All right. 
B~: 
Q Do you know a Pedro Barrios? 
A Yeah. 
Q Who is he? 
A Local candidate. He became a member for a while, and then he left. And 
23 then he came with us --he was with us in D.C., so --we brought him along. 
24 Q Who are the other individuals in this picture? Are these Proud Boys or just 
25 friends? Like, who are they?  1 
2 
3 A 
Q 
A I think all of them were Proud Boys except John, in the back over there. 
What's John's last name? 
Rach man, I believe, or maybe that's what we called him, because that 
4 sounds like a pirate name. 
5 That's another thing. Like, a lot of people, like, their names, like, we use, 
6 like --Telegram really screwed that up, so people use their name. But we called him 
7 John Rach man. He passed away at the end of January. 97  1 [1:11 p.m.] 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 Mr. Hull. They look like my fishing guides in Alaska. 
BY 
Q And who are the other individuals in the picture? 
A One is a rabbi. 
Q Do you know the rabbi's real name? 
A I wish I could tell you. The rabbi --and that's what he --because he's an 
8 actual rabbi. 
9 
10 Q Okay. 
A You've got Pedro. You've got Gilbert. You've got Gabriel, Chris, Joe, 
11 which I don't even know if that's his real name. 
12 Mr. Hull. Who's the guy that looks like the bass player for Van Halen? 
13 
14 
15 The Witness. I have no idea. And then on the right is Ozzy. 
Q Okay. And so Ms. Gracia --are these people like members of the same 
16 chapter of the Proud Boys, or --
17 A It wasn't --so it wasn't all --I'd say, well, yeah, I guess, at one point Pedro 
18 came into the Proud Boys and came out. But it was more of a Latino-for-Trump thing 
19 where I'm --at this point, I think I'm the chief of --no, I'm not. I'm the Florida 
20 state director. 
21 Q You're the executive director, is that what you were, like an executive 
22 director? 
23 
24 
25 A Yeah, Florida State director. 
Q Got it. 
A Yeah. And then Ozzy was the local Miami, I forgot what they called it, 98  99 
1 director or whatever. And then you had John was also a member, if I'm not mistaken, 
2 so --
3 Q Got it. And so how --and this is just me, my curiosity, how did you all pay 
4 for this jet? 
5 
6 
7 
8 A You'd have to ask Bianca there. 
Q Okay. So --
A I have no idea. 
Q --Ms. Gracia organized the jet and seems like you all just showed up and got 
9 on it and flew to D.C.? 
10 
11 A Yeah. 
Q Okay. Where did you all stay when you got to D.C., or did you all stay in 
12 the same place? I might have been assuming. 
13 A No, we didn't stay in the same place. I can't tell you where anybody else 
14 stayed. 
15 Q Where did you stay? 
16 A I always stayed at the Phoenix Park. 
17 Q The Phoenix Park, okay. 
18 You can take down exhibit,-. Thank you. 
19 Did you ever receive any financial assistance with your lodging or anything? 
20 A No, I never --I never liked asking people for money or anything. Like the 
21 jet was --the jet was nice, but I hate asking people to pay for my hotel, flight, or anything 
22 like that. Even if I'm going to speak at an event, I pay for it out of pocket. 
23 Q I guess, tell us how that came about, though, with the jet and Ms. Gracia? 
24 Did she just call you up one day and say, Hey, there's an opportunity you can take a jet to 
25 D.C., or how did that come up?  100 
1 A I think it became where some of the guys that were in that picture they 
2 couldn't really afford, you know, flight over. So Bianca decided, you know, Hey, you 
3 know, you've got Trump supporters to come with you? And I said, yeah, I've got a 
4 couple. And she rented the jet. And from there I just --we just brought people that 
5 wanted to come. 
6 Mr. Hull. Forgive me, is it possible,_, to put up the Pedro Barrios photo of 
7 the jet again? 
8 Oh, please. That's fine. _, can you please put up 
9 exhibit 5 --
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 Mr. Hull. Just for a minute. 
--for Mr. Hull. 
Mr. Hull. Had you seen this before? 
BY 
Q And while we're pulling it up, Mr. Tarrio, who was that Miami director again? 
15 It was Mr. Ozzy --
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 A Fuck, if I tell you his last name now, I'd be lying. 
Mr. Hull. Watch your language. 
The Witness. Oh, sorry. Sorry. 
Mr. Hull. This is like --these are --
The Witness. The stenographer has to go through and type it up. 
Mr. Hull. These are real people. Okay. Thank you for doing that. 
BY 
Q No problem. No problem. You can take it down-. 
Okay. And I think you mentioned Ms. Gracia wanting to help other Trump 
25 supporters get to D.C., but did the Proud Boys fund raise at all to help people attend this  101 
1 November 14th rally? 
2 A Not that I know of. I --you know, because individual --here's the thing, 
3 like, individual chapters or people can do whatever the hell they want. 
Right. 4 
5 Q 
A So I can tell you with certainty that like somebody was short on money and 
6 another friend helped them go over, or got a hotel for them. But if you're asking us to, 
7 like --do we coordinate like getting hotel rooms and shit like that --oh, sorry. Sorry. 
8 
9 Q 
A No, you're fine. I get it. I get it. 
I --it's definitely --it never was --it never was, like, a thing like that. 
10 mean, we're not --we're not --here's another thing, like I don't like --me, myself, I don't 
11 make a lot of money. There's no Proud Boy members that are multimillionaires --
12 
13 Q 
A Yeah. 
--you know. There's a lot of people that support us, and I've seen, like, 
14 people put up fundraisers for certain things, or when they're going through some trouble 
15 also they put up --and I share those, you know. But that's as far as it goes. I don't 
16 even think I --like I'm not a wealthy --I'm not a person with a lot of money either, you 
17 know, so I haven't really put in any money towards fundraisers myself. 
18 Q 
19 efforts --
20 
21 
22 
23 A 
Q 
A 
Q Sure. So you would just use your platform to help other folks' individual 
Yeah. 
--to raise money? 
Yeah. 
Okay. And then Chris Barcenas, Chris Barcenas, am I pronouncing the 
24 name right? Do you know him? B-a-r-c-e-n-a-s is the last name. 
25 A I can't tell you that I know the last name.  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 Q Okay. All right. So when you had --
Mr. Hull. Can you spell that again? 
Mr.- Excuse me? 
The Witness. He wants you to spell that. 
Mr. Hull. Spell that again for me. 
BY 
Q Okay. It's B-a-r-c-e-n-a-s. I believe it's the Chris in that picture that we 
8 just showed you. I believe that's his last name. 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 Mr. Hull. Okay. That was my next question. So he's -­
The Witness. He's in that picture? 
BY 
Q Yeah. Do you know his position in Latinos for Trump? 
A Yeah. 
Q What was it? 
A What did you ask, I'm sorry? 
Q What was his position within Latinos for Trump? 
A Oh, I don't think he had a position with Latinos for Trump. 
Q Did he have a position in Proud Boys? 
A I don't know if Chris was a member yet, or he became a member after at 
20 that time in November. I'm not 100 percent sure. 102 
21 Q Okay. And when did he become a member, do you know what --oh, sorry, 
22 Mr. Hull. 
23 Mr. Hull. I would just ask a question, and let me just ask it of --is there Latinos 
24 for Trump that's national and then one that's just --
25 The Witness. So -- 1 
2 Mr. Hull. --just confined to Florida? How does that work? 
The Witness. So to repeat --to repeat what Dan's asking, if there's like more 103 
3 than one organization for Latinos for Trump. I think you guys also know the answer to 
4 that. There's like the campaign, Latinos for Trump, and we're like the grassroots like 
5 Latinos for Trump organization. 
6 B~ 
7 Q So you all didn't really --did you all work officially with the campaign, or that 
8 was the other Latinos for Trump? 
9 
10 A No, that was the other Latinos for Trump. 
Q Got it, okay. That was actually one of the questions I was going to get to, 
11 so thank you, Mr. Hull, for raising that. I appreciate it. 
12 
13 
14 Mr. Hull. That's my only contribution for today. 
BY 
Q Well, if we can keep tag-teaming like this, we might be able to move along 
15 pretty fast, Mr. Hull. 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 The Witness. Do you have the mouse? Are you moving the mouse around? 
Mr. Hull. No, I'm sorry. 
The Witness. Okay. 
Mr. Hull. We lost our mouse. Hold on a minute. Here you go. 
The Witness. Okay. Okay. Sorry. Go ahead. 
BY 
Q Okay. So when you all came to the rally on November 14th, did you 
23 provide personal security or event security or anything? 
24 A No. What I did on November 14th, I think I got a --like a small group, and 
25 we walked around with Alex Jones, and he spoke on a stage and I spoke on the same  104 
1 stage. And we did --we did --we did like our own thing and some of the guys did their 
2 own thing, so --
3 
4 Plaza? 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 Q Did you speak on the stage at the Supreme Court or the one at Freedom 
A I believe --no, it was the Supreme Court. 
Q The Supreme Court, okay. Did you go to the rally at Freedom Plaza first? 
A I don't --I think we passed by there. 
Q Got it. 
A I think we went --we went from --we marched in there, and then we went 
10 to --I always get this one confused. It's either like W or the Willard or whatever that's in 
11 the corner. 
12 
13 Q 
A Uh-huh. 
We stood in front of there for a little while. And then I met with Alex, and I 
14 said, Hey, I'll walk with you, and then we walked over there with Alex to the 
15 Supreme Court. 
16 Q Got it. So did you just randomly run into Mr. Jones, or did you know him 
17 previously or coordinate with him? 
18 A No, there was no coordination. He just --he just happened to be in the 
19 building. 
20 
21 
22 Q Okay. 
A And we were there. 
Q So you all walked from the Willard or the W over in that Freedom Plaza area, 
23 you all walked down to the Supreme Court? 
24 
25 A Yes. 
Q And then, how did it come about that you would speak? Was like that  105 
1 preplanned, or did --
2 A It wasn't. Like as soon as I got there that --one of the people speaking saw 
3 that I was there. He's like, hey, do you want to say some words? And I grabbed the 
4 microphone. 
5 
6 words? 
7 
8 
9 
10 Q Do you remember who that individual was that asked you to say some 
A No, I didn't know who that was. 
Q Okay. 
A I've never seen that person before. 
Q Got it. Did you see any other, like, groups such as the Oath Keepers or 
11 Three Percenters or anything while you were at the rally on November 14th? 
12 
13 A 
Q Probably like walking around, yeah. 
I guess, at that time, what was your relationship at all? Did you speak to 
14 them, or did you just kind of walk past them? 
15 
16 A So my relationship, and I think I said this earlier --
Q Yeah, you said about Mr. Rhodes --I just want to make sure that we got the 
17 relationship --
18 A Well, here's the thing, with after that event in Portland, I didn't want to 
19 do --have anything to do with Oath Keepers or militias or anything like that, not because 
20 of anything, like I don't --like if they want to do their thing, they do their thing, but they 
21 were just a little bit too serious for my taste. 
22 And I just think that --I just --I think working with others --I don't like working 
23 with others. I just --you know, and I didn't get along with --like he had already screwed 
24 us over once, and I'm like, okay, I'm not --I'm not dealing with this. 
25 Mr. Hull. Come and work in Washington, either government or, you know -- 1 
2 Q 106 
BY 
That is fair, Mr. Hull. That is fair. 
3 So while you were here, and this is just me just trying to understand your time 
4 here in D.C. for November 14th, did you interact with anyone from the White House or 
5 anyone from the campaign? 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A No. 
Okay. 
I did --you asked in November? 
Yeah, the November one. 
Okay. Yeah, no. I mean, the answer --my answer is going to be the same 
11 for December. 
12 
13 
14 Mr. Hull. I'm sorry,_ what's the question about the White House? 
BY 
Q I just asked if he had any communication with anyone at the White House 
15 during --when he was here in D.C. for the November 14th rally. 
16 A No. My answer for December 12th is going to be the same, but I guess 
17 we'll get to December when we get there. 
18 Q Yeah, we'll get there very shortly. You clearly know where I'm heading, 
19 Mr. Tarrio. 
20 And did you interact with any congressional offices or congressional members 
21 while you were here in November? 
22 
23 A 
Q 
24 November? 
25 A No. 
Okay. And did you see Mr. Ali Alexander while you were here in 
I probably did.  107 
Q Okay. 
A I know that we passed --go ahead, I'm sorry. 1 
2 
3 Q Can we pull up exhibit 6. I believe we have a picture of you all. It might 
4 be in one of those hotels you mentioned, but I just want to make sure we're just 
5 confirming and understanding. 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 So,-an we pull up exhibit 6. So I believe this is a picture of --
A Yeah. 
Q --you with Mr. Ali Alexander? 
A Yes. 
Q Do you recall this moment? 
A Yeah, I recall that. 
Q Okay. I guess, just walk us through, right. We want to hear from your 
13 words what was going on in this picture. 
14 A So this is actually a very historic picture for me. I don't drink and we were 
15 having such a good time that, you know, one of the guys passed me a beer, and I cracked 
16 it. And it was --on top of there is --that's me obviously. That's Ali. Somewhere in 
17 there is, I believe, Alex Jones somewhere and Owen Shroyer was on that same stage. 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 Mr. Hull. Where is this? 
The Witness. It's in front of --I think that's the JW. 
Q So that's at the JW Marriott? 
A Yeah. 
Q Do you --are you aware if Mr. Ali Alexander was staying at that hotel while 
24 he was here for the rally? 
25 A No.  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 Q Okay. 
Mr. Hull. Is that what you meant when you said W earlier? 
The Witness. No, no, because there's like the W Hotel and -­
Mr. Hull. Never mind. Pay no attention to me. 
The Witness. Yeah. 
BY 
Q Okay. We can take the picture down. 
So, I guess, what are you all celebrating? You say it was historic. I guess, 
9 what's being celebrated here? 
10 A I mean, that day for us was like super historic because we've --I've never 
11 seen --I've been --I've been involved in, like, the political scene since like the second 
12 Bush term, right. 
13 Q Yep. 108 
14 A I had never seen Republicans --like Republicans at that time were --during 
15 those years, they were on like life support, oxygen tanks. You know, you'd go to GOP 
16 meetings and it's just older people. And it's the first time that you'd see like --the 
17 Republican Party like mobilize and get outside and put people out on the asphalt, so it 
18 was very exciting. Again, I had never seen something like that in my life. 
19 Q When you came --when you were planning to come to that November 14th 
20 rally, did you anticipate that many people would be there? 
21 A At first, I remember criticizing the event because it was called the Million 
22 MAGA March, and I go, you'll never get close to 1 million people, so the name is just 
23 stupid. But I remember as time progressed, I'm like, wow, there's going to be a lot of 
24 people there. 
25 And when I got there, I mean, I think the most --the most --the biggest wow  109 
1 moment that I had was I was --I think it's Constitution Avenue. We're right next to the 
2 Capitol, and I was looking down Constitution Ave back and towards like Freedom Plaza, 
3 and there was people from shoulder to shoulder to like --until your eyes could see. And 
4 I remember never in my life --I don't go to concerts or anything like that. I'd never seen 
5 that congregation of that size of people ever in my life. So to me that was just like a 
6 great like moment. 
7 Q I guess we've been trying to understand as well, who was responsible for the 
8 November 14th rally? Was it Mr. Alexander or was it Women for America First? Do 
9 you know? 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 A So I'm going to give you my opinion on that. 
Q Okay. 
A I think that --
Mr. Hull. Don't guess too much. 
The Witness. Yeah. I saw the first flyer. I don't know who made it. 
Q 
A Uh-huh. 
In any of these things, there's like, everybody likes saying, Oh, I put together 
18 this rally, I put together this rally, I put together this rally. And I know there was like a 
19 lot of competing people that said that they put together the rally. But at the end of the 
20 day, I think it just had to do with a lot of different people saying that they organized this 
21 huge rally, and all they did was bring X amount of people. But did I know who did it? 
22 No, I don't. I don't know. 
23 Q Understood. 
24 
25 Mr. Hull. Non answer. 
The Witness. Sorry. I just -- 1 
2 Q 
3 appreciate it. 
4 A 110 
BY 
No, I appreciate --1 appreciate the context, Mr. Tarrio, I do. I really 
I mean, I think the context is important --not to get into something else. 
5 think what you guys are doing with, like, the investigation, context is really important to 
6 say on things. And getting like different perspectives is also important, so you can know 
7 what's --like how these events occurred. 
8 Q I couldn't have said it any better, Mr. Tarrio. So --and that's why we're 
9 looking to ask these type questions and we're moving chronological as you can tell, so we 
10 can understand what was actually going on. 
11 
12 
13 Mr. Hull. I think you did --really, you did okay. 
Q When did you leave Washington, D.C. after this event, Mr. Tarrio? And it 
14 can be approximately. 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 A Approximately about --probably about the day after or the day after that. 
Q And did you take the private jet back again? 
A I'm sorry, go ahead. 
Q Did you take the jet back again? 
A Yeah, I think so. 
Q And the same people flew back with you, you believe? 
A The same people flew back, yeah. 
Q Got it. Do you recall a November 18th rally in Atlanta, Georgia, at the State 
23 Capitol that you attended? 
24 A Yes, I did. 
25 Q Was this the Stop the Steal rally at the State Capitol then?  111 
A I think that this one was put together by Ali. 
Q Got it. 
A So I would say, yeah, I think it's the Stop the Steal rally, pretty sure. 
Q Did Mr. Alexander invite you to this rally? 
A No. 1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 Q How did you become aware of it then and then make the decision to go to 
7 it? 
8 A I just saw --I just saw like the --all the different --same thing, like different 
9 people put different flyers out. Like everybody wants to be the one that put together 
10 the event. So I saw a whole bunch of flyers. It's not far from where I was, so I drove 
11 up. 
12 
13 
14 Q Where were you at that time? 
A At home, Miami. 
Q Okay, Miami. Got it. I guess, what was the purpose of this rally on 
15 November 18th in Atlanta? I guess, what was motivating it? 
16 A You know, I don't remember what the purpose of it was. Obviously, it had 
17 to do with the election. 
18 Q I'll clarify, was this --so November 18th was the deadline for Georgia to 
19 complete the audit and recount. So were you all --was that the protest? Was it to, I 
20 guess --
21 
22 
23 
24 A Yeah. 
Q --put pressure on them? 
A Yes. 
Q Okay. And you already told us that you drove from Miami. Do you 
25 remember when you arrived in Atlanta, was it the day of the rally or like the day before?  112 
1 A I think I arrived, it could've been the first or second day I arrived late. Like I 
2 arrived when everybody was already leaving, because I remember driving up and --sorry. 
3 
4 
5 
6 Mr. Hull. Are you okay? 
The Witness. Yeah. 
Mr. Hull. Go ahead. 
The Witness. Yeah, so I arrived late, either the first or second day of the event. 
7 I know it was like 4 days of events. 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 Mr. Hull. Let him finish his question. 
The Witness. Yeah. 
Q 
A Oh, no, so for the November 18th event, you were a speaker, right? 
No. I actually got pissed off, excuse my language. So the first day I think I 
13 was able to say, like, two or three words to a small crowd of people, and I remember 
14 being pissed off on the second day because I was trying to speak. And Ali was on a 
15 ladder, and I said, Hey, I want to say a couple words, and he's like, yeah, yeah, yeah, we'll 
16 get to you or whatever. And they never did. So I remember being pissed off about 
17 that. And I --1 remember saying a couple harsh words about Ali to friends of mine at 
18 that time. 
19 Q I guess, along the same lines of what you just said about some harsh words 
20 about Ali, do you recall Mr. Alexander going in the State Capitol during this event? 
21 A No. 
22 
23 
24 Q 
A 
Q Okay. You don't recall him and Mr. Alex Jones going into the State Capitol? 
I don't remember that. 
All right. Similar question to the November 14th rally, and this is just asking 
25 generally, did you see any Oath Keepers or Three Percenters or any other groups there at  1 the rallies in Atlanta? 
A I'm sure they were there. And it's --I want to sound insensitive. 
Mr. Hull. Think about --think about his question. Just answer the question. 
The Witness. Yeah. No, I've got the answer to it. 
Mr. Hull. I mean, you don't have to defame anybody. 113 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 The Witness. I mean, I'm being honest here. A bunch of older White dudes in 
7 camouflage are hard to tell one from the other, like I can't tell them apart, like what 
8 group is what. 
9 BY 
10 Q Okay. Understood. Anything else --anything else you remember about 
11 the rallies at the Atlanta State Capitol? 
12 A I remember --and this is just on me. I remember walking in front of 
13 like --there was counter protesters in black bloc, which identified themselves as antifa. 
14 And I remember going to their site and having a conversation with them --
15 
16 Mr. Hull. Shit. 
The Witness. --which I almost got killed if it wasn't for Georgia State police 
17 pulling me out of there. 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 Mr. Hull. Just answer --
The Witness. And it was me by myself. 
Mr. Hull. --one question at a time. Answer the question. 
The Witness. Okay. 
BY 
Q Okay. Well, like, I guess, approximately --did you --when did you leave 
24 this event, is what I'm trying --just the time, I'm trying to understand that. When did 
25 you leave approximately? Was it, like, a weekend or during the week?  114 
A I don't even remember when it was. 
Q That's fine. 1 
2 
3 A When you said the date, that's --like, you could have asked me when were 
4 you in Atlanta? And I couldn't tell you a date. I didn't know when that happened. 
5 
6 Q Okay. 
Mr. Hull. Was there a --excuse me. I have a question just for the record. 
7 Was there a title of the Atlanta thing, like a theme or a title for the whole rally? 
8 We're not tracking a title. We just --what we're tracking that it 
9 was a rally to protest the audit deadline on November 18th, which I believe Mr. Tarrio 
10 said it rang a bell. Is that correct? Did that kind of ring a bell, the audit recount? 
11 
12 The Witness. Yeah. 
Mr. Hull. But it didn't have --it didn't go by a name like Stop This or Stop That? 
13 We believe it was hosted, as Mr. Tarrio said Stop the Steal, Mr. Ali 
14 Alexander, to protest the audit and recount deadline on November 18th. 
15 
16 Mr. Hull. And you think there was a precursor to January 6th? 
We're trying to understand that, Mr. Hull. That's what we're 
17 trying to understand. 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 Mr. Hull. Go ahead. Sorry. 
BY 
Q So December 12th, you came back up to D.C. for that rally, correct? 
A That's correct. 
Q I guess, which --there was a number of rallies, right, the Jericho March and 
23 there was I think a Women for America First event. Which one did you go to, if not 
24 both? 
25 A I don't think we went to any of them.  115 
Okay. So what were you doing in D.C. that -- 1 
2 Q 
A 1 remember that day being different, because there was so many Proud Boys 
3 and Trump supporters that followed us when we marched. There was a stage that we 
4 went to and that might be the Jericho stage. I'm not sure. It was, I think, on the south 
5 side of the Washington Monument. 
6 Q Gotcha. That was the Jericho part. 
7 
8 
9 A 
Q 
A Okay. 
So you were at the Jericho March? 
Yeah. So I remember walking to Freedom Plaza, and we didn't fit in 
10 Freedom Plaza, like our march. We didn't fit in Freedom Plaza, so I said, you know what, 
11 let's go to the Washington Monument, and we could just hang out there because it's a big 
12 park. And we did that and we --someone said that there's a stage on the other side so 
13 we went over there. And we actually --I got on that stage. I didn't --I don't 
14 remember --I didn't speak, but I remember getting on the stage. 
15 Q Okay. I guess backtracking a little bit, when did you arrive --so the rally is 
16 on December 12th. When did you arrive in D.C.? 
17 A Probably December 10th, maybe. 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q Okay. And how --did you drive up? Did you fly like last time? 
I recall --I just took a plane. 
You just took a plane. Was it a private plane or just commercial this time? 
No, I believe --I believe that time was just commercial. 
Did you travel with anyone, or were you traveling by yourself? 
I have no recollection if I traveled with somebody. 
Okay. And you said you kind of wound up on stage but that wasn't 
25 pre-coordinated or anything?  1 
2 A 
Q 116 
No. 
Did anyone that was organizing these events, other than those posting 
3 flyers, did they ask you to be in D.C. that week, or that weekend? 
4 
5 A 
Q No. 
Did you, I guess, promote it internally within the Proud Boys for other 
6 members to come to D.C. that weekend? 
7 
8 A 
Q Yeah, I think a lot of the guys were wanting to come. 
I guess, what was the general mood internally within the group to want to 
9 come to that rally on December 12th? 
10 Mr. Hull. Say that again. I'm sorry,-. 
11 BY 
12 Q I guess, what was the general sense or mood of the group as they were 
13 coming to D.C. for the December 12th rally? 
14 
15 Mr. Hull. Go ahead and answer, if you understand. 
The Witness. I mean, it's --I can never --it's really hard for me to tell you like 
16 what did --what did the Proud Boys --what was the opinion of the Proud Boys or 
17 whatnot, because we have so much varying different opinions on things. And there's 
18 people that just didn't want to go to a rally or didn't want anybody to go to a rally. 
19 There was some people that wanted to go to the rally. You know, so, like, I can't really 
20 tell you like what the sentiment was besides it's --it was all over the place. 
21 BY 
22 Q Got it. Did you --were you aware --did you or were you aware of any of 
23 the Proud Boys providing personal security during the events in D.C. on December 12th? 
24 
25 A 
Q Not that I could remember. 
So you all didn't provide security for Mr. Roger Stone that weekend?  117 
1 A I don't remember. I mean, maybe, possible, but I don't --I don't recall that 
2 at all. 
3 
4 Q 
A Did you see Mr. Stone in D.C. that weekend? 
I think he was speaking at the JW, but that's --that --but I can't remember if 
5 it was that I saw him there in November or December. 
6 Q Okay. I guess we've seen public reporting that you would've --that you 
7 went --actually, can we just pull up exhibit 10. It's not even public reporting. Can we 
8 pull up exhibit 10, -? 
9 So this, we believe it was the weekend December 12th. It looks like you went to 
10 the White House that weekend. Do you remember that visit? 
11 
12 A 
Q Yes, I do. 
I guess, who coordinated for you to go, or did you organize it yourself to go 
13 to the White House? 
14 A No. Latinos for Trump had, I think it was like a couple of invites to the --for 
15 the White House like winter tour or whatever. And, yeah, we just went. 
16 Q -you can take the exhibit down. 
17 
18 
19 Thank you, Mr. Tarrio. So it was through Ms. Bianca Gracia again? 
A 
Q Yeah. 
Did you speak with anyone at the White House about this visit or was 
20 everything through Ms. Gracia? 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A No, everything was through Ms. Gracia. 
Okay. Did you talk to any congressional members about this visit? 
Any what? 
Any congressional members about this visit. 
No. No.  1 
2 
3 118 
Q Okay. Who all went with you on the tour, if you recall? 
Mr. Hull. Did you go by yourself? 
The Witness. No. It was me, obviously Bianca, and the staff, which was like --I 
4 can't tell you last names because I don't remember, but like there was like two Marias. 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 Mr. Hull. Your friends? 
The Witness. Oh, man. Two Marias, Alex. 
Mr. Hull. Alex Jones went on the tour? 
The Witness. No, no, not that. 
B~: 
Q Not Alex Jones, right? 
A No, not Alex Jones. 
Q A Latino Alex, I'm assuming? 
A Yeah. 
Q Okay. 
A I just don't know their last names. 
Q That's fine. Any other folks you remember first names for? 
A Jamie. It's a woman. 
Mr. Hull. So there was a few people? 
The Witness. Yeah, there was a couple of us. 
BY 
Q Approximately how many people were in this group? 
A I'd say it would be close to like anywhere between eight and 12 people. 
Q And was --you said it was a winter tour. What is that, the winter tour? 
A So what they do is they put --in the White House, they go ahead and they 
25 like put Christmas decorations, and they take you on a tour of the White House with all  119 
1 the Christmas decorations. 
2 Q Gotcha. And this might be obvious, but I just have to ask it, did you meet 
3 any White House officials or President Trump during this tour? 
4 A No, no, I didn't. I know that we had a --there was an issue with like us 
5 trying to take a picture with like bringing our masks down and trying to take a picture, 
6 and then we had an interaction, which wasn't pleasant, with Secret Service telling us to 
7 put up our masks. And I went ahead and I put --I put like, you know, last-minute 
8 White House tour on my --on a social media post. 
9 Q Got it. So I guess going back after the visit and just your general 
10 experiences in D.C. for the December 12th rally, again, I have to ask, did you see any Oath 
11 Keeper members while you were there? 
12 A I'm going to answer you the same on that one. I just --I can't pick them 
13 apart. You know, I don't --like it's very easy to pick out the Proud Boys from the crowd 
14 because you're used to seeing that black and yellow. 
15 
16 Q 
A Right. 
But you can't like --I won't make the same --and it's not a joke. It's how I 
17 feel. But it's the same thing. I just can't tell who's who there. 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q Do you recall meeting a Mr. Kelly Meggs during the December 12th rally? 
No. I don't even know what Kelly Meggs looks like. 
Okay. Do you know of a Mr. Kelly Meggs? 
I've heard the name before, yeah. 
Is it just through both of you all live in Florida? I guess, how have you 
23 heard the name? 
24 A I've heard the name before because of --just him being arrested for being at 
25 the Capitol.  120 
Q Oh, so post January 6th? 
A Yeah. 
Q Okay. 1 
2 
3 
4 A You know, I have a lot of people that I probably ran into them in December. 
5 I just don't know who anybody is. 
6 Q Gotcha. I guess, thinking about --and I don't want to get into like your 
7 events on the night of December 12th. I think that's been reported enough. But were 
8 you surprised to have like law enforcement out in force that way in Washington, D.C. that 
9 evening? 
10 A No. No. I knew that law enforcement, like, had to have a presence there 
11 that day. There was a lot of people. It was a lot of people. 
12 Q So is that --was it the number of people that they had to have a presence, or 
13 was it the type of people as well that were coming together? I guess, help us 
14 understand why you weren't surprised. 
15 A No, it's just like the amount of people. It was a massive amount of people. 
16 There was a massive amount of counter protests, too. I think that they 
17 did --Metropolitan Police Department did an excellent job all the way up until later on 
18 with --when four Proud Boys got stabbed. 
19 
20 Q Which members got stabbed, if you don't mind me asking? I think --
A Jeremy Bertino. One of our guys from Tennessee, we called him Rabbit. 
21 And one of our Maryland guys got stabbed. And another gentleman from Tennessee. 
22 
23 
24 
25 Mr. Hull. Any from Glen Burnie? 
B~ 
Q You said --you said the full name of Mr. Bertino. Who is he? 
A Just a member of the Proud Boys.  1 
2 Q 
A 
3 chapter. 
Q Does he have any leadership role or anything like that? 
No, he's never really been like a president or anything of his, like, local 
Is he a Florida Proud Boy as well? 
A No. He's out of somewhere in the Carolinas. 121 
4 
5 
6 Q Got it. And then similar, like always, the same rapid question, do you recall 
7 when you left the December 12th rally? 
8 A Not really. I know I stayed a couple of days because the --they got 
9 stabbed. So I went to go visit them at the hospital. I stayed as long as I could, and 
10 then I had to go back. 
11 Q And did you see --I mean, you said you --1 think you mentioned you saw 
12 him, but you saw Mr. Stone this weekend --that weekend, correct, Mr. Roger Stone? 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 A What weekend? 
Q The weekend of December 12th. 
A It could've been December 12th or November 14th. They're --
Q They blend in together, I'm assuming? 
A Don't quote me on it, because it was at the JW and I remember going 
18 multiple times to the JW. 
19 Q So whether it was the November or the December rally, I guess, do you 
20 recall what you and Mr. Stone were talking about? 
21 A No. He --so the reason why we're going to the JW is because it has like this 
22 raised platform, and like we use it --or they use it as a stage, and he was speaking. So I 
23 think it was like, hey, it's good to have you here, blah, blah, blah, or whatnot. 
24 Q And before I turn to I just have one background. Do you 
25 know Mr. Stone? I guess, what's the nature of your relationship with Mr. Stone?  122 
1 
2 
3 A 
Q 
A Just we've always been friendly together. That's about it. We're friends. 
Do you all speak pretty frequently? 
No. I wouldn't say we speak frequently. There was a point where we 
4 spoke more frequently, but, no, in a long time, we --we weren't --we weren't at that 
5 level even in 2020, where we would speak frequently or whatnot. 
6 Mr. Hull. That's a good thing. 
7 
8 
9 Q BY 
Thanks. I just had one follow-up question, because we've talked about 
10 it --you know, a couple election-related events between, you know, the election and the 
11 weeks after the election. So do you --do you believe that the election was stolen? 
12 A I have a very complicated view on that. I --I can't tell you with certainty 
13 that I believe that the election was stolen, or that the election wasn't stolen. I don't 
14 know how individual States work. I can't --I can't tell you that I --I, like, know how 
15 ballots are counted in Arizona. I can't tell you how ballots are counted in Georgia, 
16 California. I don't know. 
17 So, like, I base it --and here we're going to get into opinion again. I base my 
18 view on the history of the --that the United States has, right. And the history of the 
19 United States is very grim and very dark. And I'm not saying the history back, you know, 
20 in the 1700s or 1800s. I'm talking about, in recent years, the United States Government 
21 has meddled in the elections of other countries. You know, we could --we could talk 
22 about Chile, we could talk about Colombia, Venezuela, South America, all over South 
23 America, in Europe, Israel. I think the United States has a history. 
24 Do I think it's possible that the election was stolen? Maybe, but I can't tell you 
25 with certainty. I just don't know. It's not a thing with me to tell you that it was --it  123 
1 was one thing or another. I'm not --
2 Q Well, did you think that previous elections were stolen, like the 2016 
3 election? 
A It's possible. I go back to the same thing. It's possible, yeah. 
Q Got it. So --
Mr. Hull. excuse me. 
BYMR. 
Q So in your opinion, every election is theoretically possibly stolen? 4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 A No, that's not what I said. I said that I can't tell you whether it's stolen or 
10 not. You know, you asked me, you go, could it be stolen? I said, yeah. But you 
11 could've asked me, could it not be stolen or was it not stolen, like I'll answer you the same 
12 way. I don't know. I don't know the election process. 
13 And honestly, like I don't --I don't know if there's many people that can say that 
14 with certainty. I just know that, excuse my language, I think the United States 
15 Government, when it comes to, like, foreign elections has done some fucked-up things. 
16 Mr. Hull. Well, it's clear. 3 minutes, 4 minutes for me. 
17 I know you just came on, but just a break? 
18 You're asking for a break? 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 Mr. Hull. I'm asking for a --just 3 or 4 minutes, nothing big. 
Let's just come back at 1:55. Would that work? 
Mr. Hull. That's fine. No coaching opportunity. I just need to -­
It's all good. 
The Witness. Hey, just asking, how much longer do you think we have? 
Mr. Hull. Don't ask that. 
do you have a sense?  1 You can tell chronologically, I'm getting --I'm at mid-December 
2 now, so I don't think I have that much longer to go honestly. 
3 
4 
5 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 Mr. Hull. Let them do this. Don't ask questions. 
The Witness. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And I'm not asking. 
Mr. Hull. We're casting our --something to the wind. We'll be right back. 
Okay. 1:55. 
- Thanks. 
And we'll go off the record at 1:49 p.m. 
[Recess.] 
All right. We are back in. 
13 We can go back on the record at 1:55 p.m. 124 
14 , I think I was actually concluded with my set of questions that I had if 
15 you want to take over. 
16 
17 
18 BY 
Q And, Perfect. Thank you, 
can we please pull up exhibit 12. So this is December 19th. 
19 It looks like --so former President Trump posts about the January 6th protest. He says, 
20 Be there, Be wild. Do you recall this tweet, Mr. Tarrio? 
21 A Can I tell you, I recall this tweet. I remember the "Be there, Be wild" being 
22 reported by the news. I don't --I don't --I haven't had a Twitter account in like 3 years. 
23 Q Okay. You can take the exhibit down,_ 
24 So I guess the question is, when did you first become aware that there was going 
25 to be a rally in Washington, D.C. on January 6th?  125 
1 A I know that it was a little bit later in mid-December, so probably a little bit 
2 after that tweet maybe is when I started seeing it. I started seeing people, Hey, we're 
3 going to --we're going to be there for January 6th. 
4 Q Okay. And bear with me, Mr. Tarrio, I'm going to show you a couple 
5 exhibits, and I just want to ask you a few questions for them. So can we pull up 
6 exhibit 47 first. Actually, let's go with exhibit 46 first,-· Okay. So at the top 
7 of this page, it's just subscriber information for Mr. Kelly Meggs. It's a 
8 phone number. 
9 Can we pull up exhibit 47 now, - So this is entry from your call detail 
10 records. The date is December 19, 2020. And as you can see --can you zoom in a little 
11 bit,_, on the numbers, please? There is an originating number that has_, 
12 the-number for Mr. Kelly Meggs, and it's calling your phone number. And it looks 
13 like you all spoke last time 3:26. Do you recall talking to Mr. Kelly Meggs on 
14 December 19, 2020? 
15 A I'll be dead honest with you, absolutely not. I don't remember talking to 
16 him. 
17 Q Okay. 
18 A A lot of people --go ahead. 
19 Q No, I'm sorry. 
20 You can take the exhibit down,_ 
21 Mr. Hull. Please, let him --finish your answers. 
22 The Witness. Yeah, like I got --like you guys have my phone records. I get 
23 people that call me all the time, and I pick up every phone number. Like right now when 
24 we were on the break, I picked up this weird phone number that was from some dude in 
25 California that he's happy that I got out, got out of jail, blah, blah, blah, yackity smackity.  126 
1 And I gave him a couple minutes of my time. 
2 Do I remember --and I know --and I've seen the Kelly Meggs, like where they say, 
3 oh, he had contact with somebody in Florida, Florida Proud Boys or whatever --
4 
5 Mr. Hull. Facebook. 
The Witness. --or on Facebook, like a Facebook message or something like that. 
6 But I never --at that point, I still was on the F Oath Keepers train. So if he told me he 
7 was an Oath Keeper, I probably would just listen to him and be like, Oh, okay, awesome. 
8 Great to meet you. Thank you. Blah, blah, blah. That's it. 
9 
10 BY 
Q Okay. So I just want to --I just want to recap. So when we talked about 
11 the December 12th rally, and I specifically asked about a Mr. Kelly Meggs, if you had met 
12 him, I believe you said you might have. Okay. So then we move to December 19th. 
13 There's a phone call with you and Mr. Kelly Meggs right after Mr. --after President 
14 Trump's tweet about the rally. 
15 And now can we pull up exhibit 8, please,_ and go to page one. Okay. 
16 So this looks like it's a message from Mr. Kelly Meggs again on December 19th. So on 
17 December 19th we have the President's tweet, we have a phone call, we have this 
18 message from Mr. Kelly Meggs where he says, "Well, we are ready for the rioters. This 
19 week I organized an alliance between Oath Keepers, Florida Three Percenters, and Proud 
20 Boys. We have decided to work together and shut this shit down." 
21 So, again, I want to ask, do you recall speaking to Mr. Kelly Meggs about an 
22 alliance around this time in December? 
23 A When you're asking specifically about some type of alliance, I can tell you 
24 straight up, no. We don't --I don't like working with other groups at all. Like you've 
25 never --if you go back to pictures that you saw in November and December on times that  127 
1 we march, we don't march with anybody else. I don't like coordinating at all with other 
2 groups. 
3 I don't like --as much as people --and I get people that name-drop me all the 
4 time. I believe that there was another instance where --I keep up to date with like a lot 
5 of the January 6th stuff. This Kelly Meggs guy like name-drops like Roger Stone or 
6 whatnot one time, and I think that he does that just to gain some type of credibility. But 
7 I can guarantee you that there was never any coordination between me or any, like, Oath 
8 Keepers or Three Percenters. 
9 Mr. Hull. I have a question. _, when you showed the phone call before, 
10 was that --did you say there was two phone calls or one? Not the Facebook but the 
11 phone records. 
12 Oh, it was one phone call on December 19th with Mr. Kelly 
13 Meggs. 
14 Mr. Hull. Okay. That matches with the Facebook thing. I got it. 
15 
16 
17 Yes. Yes. Yes. 
BY 
Q Okay. Do you recall anyone from the Proud Boys speaking with Mr. Kelly 
18 Meggs or individuals from the Florida Oath Keepers? 
19 
20 A No, not that I know of. 
Q Okay. We can take the exhibit down. 
21 A Again, like I can't --I can't really --I can't really tell you that somebody else 
22 didn't talk to him at some point. I doubt it, especially in Florida. But, yeah, definitely I 
23 could tell you with certainty, in my case, no. 
24 Q Okay. So I just want to tie this up to make sure it's clear for the record, 
25 right. We have the President --we have you acknowledged you might have met  128 
1 Mr. Meggs at the December rally. We have the President's tweet about the protest on 
2 January 6th, "Be there, be wild." We have a call record of Mr. Kelly Meggs calling you on 
3 December 19th. 
4 And then we have this message where Mr. Kelly Meggs says he create an alliance 
5 with the Oath Keepers, the Florida Three Percenters, and the Proud Boys. And I just 
6 want to remind you under oath, you don't recall discussing an alliance with Mr. Kelly 
7 Meggs on December 19th? 
8 
9 A I do not recall that at all. 
Q And you do not recall hearing about any other Proud Boys discussing an 
10 alliance with Mr. Kelly Meggs? 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 A No. 
Q At any point? 
A That I know of, I can't remember. 
Mr. Hull. He --
The Witness. I can't remember --go ahead. 
Mr. Hull. He has been asked that and other people have by defense attorneys, 
17 because it came up and it came up in a couple different ways. And the Raw Story 
18 reporter came up with a new Facebook thing, and we're pretty comfortable this is bull. 
19 And I don't know anything about Meggs, but --
20 The Witness. I don't even know --you could put him in a lineup right now, and I 
21 won't even know what he looks like. 
22 Mr. Hull. Both Biggs and Tarrio never talked to Meggs, don't know who he is, 
23 never talked to the Oath Keepers about doing anything. There's some very weird Oath 
24 Keepers fantasies about what they're going to do with the Proud Boys. Proud Boys 
25 didn't wear uniforms that day; Oath Keepers did. Oath Keepers would have stuck out,  129 
1 and they would've said get out or, you know, stay behind, step aside. 
2 BY 
3 Q So just to be clear though, you aren't denying that you didn't speak to him. 
4 You just don't recall? 
5 
6 
7 A I just don't recall that I spoke to him. 
Q Thank you. 
A And I guarantee you, if you look at my phone records from any time within 
8 that 1-day period within that December timeframe, I literally stay on my phone the whole 
9 day. I give my phone number out freely to anybody that asked. 
10 
11 Q Does any other staff have any follow-up questions to that? 
Okay. President Trump tweets about January 6th on December 19th. What did 
12 you understand to be the purpose of the rally on January 6th? 
13 A I thought it was another --I didn't know what the significance of January 6th 
14 was. To me, it was like the third Million MAGA March at that time. 
15 Q Did you eventually come to the understanding that January 6th was when 
16 Congress would certify the electoral college? 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 A Yeah, I think later in December I did. 
Q Did you recall how you became aware of that? 
A No. 
Q Was it through news or through Proud Boys talking or --
A No, I don't --I can't --I can't --I don't remember. 
Q Okay. Can we pull up exhibit 8 again and go to page two. 
Mr. Hull. On the record or off? 
24 Oh, yeah, this is on --we're going to pull up exhibit 2 (sic) on the 
25 record, and I have a couple questions about page two.  1 
2 BY 
Q So just continuing, and I know we've covered it but I want to make sure 130 
3 we're complete here, so on December 22, 2020, Mr. Kelly Meggs, again, says, "I figure we 
4 could splinter off the main group of PB" --which I'm assuming is Proud Boys --"and come 
5 up behind them. Fucking crush them for good." This is December 22nd. 
6 So do you recall, I guess, after December 19th anyone in your group in Proud Boys 
7 talking to Mr. Kelly Meggs about a plan to splinter and fucking crushing someone for 
8 good? 
9 
10 A No, definitely not. 
Q And I know this might --I guess, what do you take "crush them for 
11 good" --do you know what he's talking about here? 
12 A I can tell you, because I've seen this before, fall to the back, just judging by 
13 the next question, we hang for a while. They'll see one group, then we all fall to the 
14 back of the pack and peel off. We catch them in the middle, game over. That sounds 
15 like he's talking about maybe antifa. That's probably what he was trying to talk about. 
16 Q Gotcha. I guess, why do you --like, look, I don't see antifa in here. How 
17 do you come to that conclusion? Just --I'm just trying to understand. 
18 A Just like he says, we can hang for a while. They'll see one group, then we 
19 all fall to the back of the pack and peel off. We catch them in the middle, game over. 
20 don't know, like I --
21 Mr. Hull. Who is the pack? 
22 The Witness. --just feel like this is like --this is like a street march kind of thing. 
23 And I take it just from like them saying it, like somebody sees them in the front and then 
24 they go through the back, like to the other street. 
25 Mr. Hull. Anyone. What is the pack? What is that in that sentence?  131 
The Witness. I don't know. 
BY 1 
2 
3 Q Thank you, Mr. Hull. Yeah, that's --did you ask him the question? I was 
4 going to ask that. 
5 Mr. Hull. No, I --since we're all trying to solve the mystery together, I'm 
6 wondering what "pack" means there. 
7 The Witness. I can't --I can't really talk for what he is. I could just tell you, like, 
8 my opinion is probably like talking about antifa. But I definitely --to answer your 
9 original question, no. 
10 BY 
11 Q I guess the way I interpret it, and this is what I'm going to ask, like fall off to 
12 the back of the pack and peel off, that sounds like a moving, like a march. Were you all 
13 planning a march on January 6th? Was that part of the plan? 
14 
15 
16 A No. 
Q Okay. 
A No. 
17 Q Can we go to page three,-. So this is another message from 
18 Mr. Kelly Meggs. It's on Christmas of 2020. He says, "you can hang with us. We will 
19 probably be guarding" --it's redacted --"or someone during the day, but then at night we 
20 have orchestrated a plan with the Proud Boys. I've been communicating 
21 with --blank --the leader. We are going to march with them for a while, then fall back 
22 to the back of the crowd and turn off. Then we will have the Proud Boys get in front of 
23 them. The cops will get between antifa and the Proud Boys. We will come in behind 
24 antifa and beat the hell out of them." So I want to break this message down a little bit. 
25 Mr. Hull. Let him ask the question.  1 
2 Q BY 
We will be guarding, are you aware that this referred to Mr. Roger Stone, 
3 the Oath Keepers providing protection to Mr. Roger Stone on January 6th? 132 
4 A I remember when --that's why I said that I remember seeing a message of 
5 Kelly Meggs where it's Roger Stone, that he's saying that he's going to guard, because 
6 there was a news story that came out about just like these messages. 
7 Q And didn't you say that it was just him, like, kind of talking, throwing out 
8 names. Is that what you said, or am I misphrasing what you said? 
9 A I said name-dropping. 
10 Q Name-dropping. But the Florida Oath Keepers did indeed provide 
11 protection for Mr. Roger Stone on January 5th and 6th, didn't they? 
12 
13 A 
Q I didn't know that. 
Okay. So then it says, "Then at night we have orchestrated a plan with the 
14 Proud Boys. I've been communicating with --blank --the leader." Since that sentence 
15 is there together, I'm assuming the leader of the Proud Boys. So it looks like Mr. Meggs 
16 is saying he's been communicating with you. Is that correct or is that incorrect? 
17 A I think correct in the context that, yeah, he probably called me that day that 
18 you said he called me. But to say that he coordinated with me, that's an 
19 absolute --that's not --that's not true. 
20 And then I remember why I thought --that last message you showed me, the 
21 previous one, why I thought it was antifa is because I had already --I read this --all of 
22 these were in one article. And this wasn't part of --this --even the antifa part, right, 
23 even the antifa part, that's not part of anything to do with what we were planning. 
24 
25 Q 
A I guess, what did --what were you planning? 
We were planning to have --for the first time, we were planning on  133 
1 having --we were not going to do any, like --usually what we'll do is we'll go to the edge 
2 of the --the event, and then that's where the counter protesters are. And usually that's 
3 where we'll hang around. On this one, we wanted to just chill out and relax for just 
4 once. 
5 
6 Q Okay. 
A We walked about, I think it was 23 miles in November and 27 miles in 
7 December. 
8 Q Okay. So your plan was like, in your words, to relax. It wasn't to stand at 
9 the edge of the event and kind of provide security against antifa. Is that correct? 
10 
11 A Yeah. 
Q Okay. We'll come back to that in --a little later. Can we pull the exhibit 
12 down,_ 
13 So then leading up into January 6th, we know that on December 27th, so we 
14 already know this, that Mr. Nordean, Ethan Nordean created an on line crowdfunding 
15 campaign soliciting donations for protective gear. And we also know that Mr. Zachary 
16 Rehl did an on line fundraiser for travel expenses that raised over $5,000. Do you recall 
17 these crowdfunding campaigns? 
18 
19 A I recall them, yes. 
Q Okay. Well, I guess, what was the purpose of raising money for the 
20 protective gear? What were you all expecting on January 6th? 
21 A - you --on December 12th, you said that you didn't want to touch the 
22 subject about what happened that night. 
23 
24 
25 Q If it provides context here, I think, please, go on --
A No. 
Q --if that might be helpful.  134 
1 A Yeah. So you asked --you said, Hey, we're not going to get into what 
2 happened later on at night. I don't know if --why you wouldn't want to get into the 
3 details of that night, because those details are important moving forward. If you're 
4 looking for the truth of what happened January 6th, it's important to go back to 
5 December 12th. 
6 Q Well, please, my understanding --I didn't know they had a connection to the 
7 protective gear, but if they do, please explain. 
8 A Well, there's a big connection. If four of your guys --if four Proud Boys gets 
9 stabbed, right, there's a big fear of going back to D.C. and getting stabbed again. So the 
10 reason for protective gear --I can't speak as to Zack. Maybe he didn't have the money 
11 to go to the event or whatever. I don't know how that works. But as far as protective 
12 gear, they didn't want to get stabbed, and they needed stab-proof vests, and that's what 
13 they brought. 
14 Mr. Hull. It costs more. 
15 The Witness. And it's --actually stab-proof vests are a lot more expensive than 
16 your typical light plate carrier with bulletproof-rated plates. 
17 
18 Q Okay. I guess, and this is just me curious, you mentioned like you don't 
19 want to be stabbed again and you had --people had just been stabbed in D.C. Why are 
20 you coming back then if individuals had just been stabbed on December 12th? 
21 A Because we believe that, like, it's our First Amendment right to protest. 
22 And I thought that it's crazy to live --is it --is it --and I don't expect you to answer this 
23 question, but is it crazy to you that we live in a country where people get stabbed over 
24 their political beliefs? 
25 If the civil --if the people in the civil rights era, if every time that they got  135 
1 assaulted and they stood down from what their --what their beliefs were then we 
2 wouldn't --the civil rights era would've been a complete and utter failure. But that's not 
3 true. 
4 These --I'll go back to the question that you asked --you guys asked me. Do I 
5 believe the election is stolen or not, and I gave you my answer. But like other people, I 
6 respect their views, if they think the election is stolen, if they don't think the election is 
7 stolen. It's not my problem to judge these people. They're human beings. They're 
8 free to believe that. 
9 So, like, to get to your --answer to your question, why would we go back, or why 
10 would anybody go back to D.C.? It's because they believed in something, and they 
11 wanted to practice their constitutionally protected First Amendment right to do so.  136 
1 [2:15 p.m.] 
2 BY 
3 Q Is part of it also that President Trump had invited and encouraged people to 
4 come to D.C. on January 6th? And I'm curious. I don't know if that's the answer. I'm 
5 just curious. 
6 
7 A 
Q Are you asking if the President asked people to come? 
No, I'm asking if that had any --if that encouraged or had any meaning in 
8 you all wanting to come back to D.C. for January 6th? 
9 A I think that that has --it doesn't matter if you were Proud Boys or it doesn't 
10 matter if you were just a regular Trump supporter, like, I think that, yeah, the President 
11 saying, "Hey, we've got to come out" is something that would make you want to come. 
12 Mr. Hull. And I hesitate to say this, but I think you're getting tired, and I've heard 
13 you answer this question before. A very small group of Proud Boys attended on 
14 January 6th compared to before. No women --no wives came. People were worried 
15 about getting stabbed. They were. 
16 The Witness. Yeah. So --
17 
18 
19 That's a great point, Mr. Hull. 
So help us understand that. I guess --
Mr. Hull. Well, I'm sorry--you know, I, one, I actually know something about 
20 this. It was a much --yeah. 
21 
22 
23 Q Thank you for pointing that out. 
So, I guess, what was the difference in numbers between the November 
24 rally, the December rally, and January 6th? 
25 A I'll tell you what the big difference was. So we're not --we're not a militia,  137 
1 right? And we're not --we don't, like, train. So we don't train to, like, march in big 
2 marches or march in a straight line or anything. 
3 So in November I think there was about, like, 400 people that identified as Proud 
4 Boys that were in the rally. And then in December there was about 1,200 people. 
5 And, you know, I'm not a --I'm not trained to make people march. So, if I march 
6 in one direction, then, like, a group of people --and it wasn't just Proud Boys; it was a 
7 bunch of Trump supporters that were following us too. You know, they'd separate from 
8 us, and we'd be all over the place. And I think it was --we're a very, very disorganized 
9 group. 
10 
11 Mr. Hull. You think? 
The Witness. We're not the sharpest tools in the shed either. 
12 But I worried --you know, I'm like, in January, I'm like, you know, we got stabbed. 
13 I don't, like --promoting Proud Boys coming on January 6th, like, in general, is probably a 
14 bad idea because of the stabbings, because, you know, you're gonna people, people are 
15 gonna be all over the place. 
16 I just didn't want people to get hurt. That was --that's my main concern every 
17 time we go to one of these events, is, like, I don't want anybody to get hurt. 
18 
19 
20 Q 
A Okay. 
So I didn't --I didn't promote --like, not promote, but I didn't say, "Hey, the 
21 Proud Boys are gonna go to D.C." as much as I did with the November and December 
22 rallies. 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A Okay. 
And that's really because of the stabbings. 
Can we pull up exhibit 13? I just want to understand, just based  138 
1 on that answer --can you pull up exhibit 13,_ 
2 
3 Q So this was a Parler message from December 29th. And it looks like this 
4 is --it might be, like, the one you did. I'm not sure. I'm trying to understand. Is this 
5 you promoting the January 6th event? 
6 
7 A Yes. 
Q Okay. And can you just walk us through? And you said you were a little 
8 worried about promoting it. Why did you choose to promote it here on December 
9 29th? 
10 A For the reason that I was worried to promote it is why I promoted it. And 
11 I'll explain why I say that. 
12 
13 Q Okay. 
A So, if you look --I'll start at, The Washington Post for some reason believes 
14 that many hotels we frequent --this is for the hotel story, so that's not really relevant. 
15 There's a story about the hotel we were in. They were trying to get us canceled out of 
16 the hotel. 
17 
18 Mr. Hull. Read it silently and answer his question. 
The Witness. "With the new" --I'll start with this one. "With the new 
19 ability" --"with the new ability of" --I think that meant to say "of" --"being able to put 
20 thousands of boots on the ground, we outgrew any single hotel." 
21 So I was putting out disinformation to the public on purpose so people thought 
22 that a lot of Proud Boys were gonna show up, right? 
23 BY 
24 
25 Q 
A Right. 
Because we have in the past. Me knowing that only a couple Proud Boys  139 
1 were gonna show up was completely different. 
2 Now, it says, "The Proud Boys will turn out in record numbers on January 6th, but 
3 this time with a twist." The record number, which is kind of true: It's actually the 
4 smallest amount of Proud Boys that we've ever had at an event, for the most part. 
5 "We will not be wearing our traditional black and yellow. We will be incognito 
6 and spread across downtown D.C. in smaller teams." 
7 So the "we will not be wearing traditional black and yellow" was on purpose, for 
8 two reasons. One is, we didn't want to wear our black and yellow for appearance 
9 because we'd become a target for people that would want to stab us. 
10 
11 Q 
A Okay. 
So the "we will be incognito," that's me rolling over to the last sentence of 
12 this, and I'll tell you that when I get there --oh, the last two sentences in this. "We'll go 
13 incognito, and we'll spread across D.C. in smaller teams." 
14 I could say that --like, anybody looking from the outside in, they would've --we 
15 didn't know that the events of January 6th, let's say --let's say, January 6th, the Capitol 
16 wasn't breached that day. Anybody looking from the outside in, I could be like, "Oh, 
17 there was 10,000 Proud Boys there," or whatever. 
18 
19 
20 Mr. Hull. Why don't you just say it was BS --
The Witness. And it was --that's where I'm going with it. 
"And who knows? We might dress in all black for the occasion." So the people, 
21 for you guys that don't know, antifa black-bloc tactics, they wear all black, literally all 
22 black, with no markings on it. And the reason they do that, you know, is so they won't 
23 be identified. 
24 And the reason why we said that we were going to do it is so antifa thinks that 
25 we're going to dress like them and they'd be afraid to come out. So the less antifa --the  140 
1 equation is --I remember this is exactly what I was talking to the guys about. I was like, 
2 the equation is: less antifa, safer events. 
3 And, "The night calls for a black-tie event," which is the same thing: We're going 
4 to dress in all black as antifa. It was me putting out this information to really get antifa 
5 going, "Oh, my God, they're going to come out dressed like us. How are we going to 
6 know who each other is?" So they won't --so I could discourage them from coming out, 
7 so, again, we won't get stabbed. 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 Q 
A 
Q So almost like, antifa misinformation, right? Is that kind of -­
That's correct. 
Okay. 
You can take this down,-. Thank you. 
The Witness. I'm sorry? Go ahead. 
B 
Q Oh, no, I was just telling- he could take the exhibit down. 
15 Going back to the fundraising, do you recall Mr. Roger Stone also posting a video 
16 to raise money for protective gear prior to January 6th? 
17 
18 A 
Q No. 
Okay. You don't recall him doing it from Mar-a-Lago in Florida, posting a 
19 video to raise money? 
20 
21 A 
Q No. 
Okay. And so, because of that, I'm just going to assume you didn't 
22 coordinate with Mr. Stone to do some fundraising for protective gear? 
23 
24 A 
Q No, definitely not. 
And were you aware of anyone, any Proud Boys --again, were you aware of 
25 any Proud Boys coordinating with Mr. Stone to fundraise for protective gear?  141 
A No, not that I know of. 
Q Okay. 1 
2 
3 We're also aware that Proud Boys bought Baofeng radios. Do you remember the 
4 purchasing of radios? 
5 A I remember --I mean, we've always used --we've always kind of, like, used 
6 radios. And I think that radios were the idea in D.C., because when you put all these 
7 people --when you put so many people in D.C., it overloads, like, the cellular system, and 
8 you can't make a call out from D.C. when one of these marches are around. You can't 
9 call anybody. There's no service. So radios --
10 
11 Mr. Hull. You can just say that, that that's why. 
The Witness. There's no reception, so you can't --like, if I get lost, I'll be able to 
12 call somebody. 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 Mr. Hull. And there's more. 
The Witness. Yeah. 
Mr. Hull. I mean --
BY 
Q Did you all use these radios at the November rally or the December rally? 
A Some of the guys did, yes. 
Q Okay. But it seems like this was more of, like, an organized effort to buy 
20 radios for January 6th. Or am I reading that wrong? 
21 
22 
23 A You're not reading it wrong, but I think that you're over-reading it a little bit. 
Q Okay. 
A It was, we had --there was two times already that we had huge problems 
24 with, like, being able to call each other. 
25 Q Is that why you all got these type of radios that have long-range  1 communication capability? 
2 
3 A 
Q No. They're just cheap radios. 
Okay. 
4 Did you all coordinate any frequencies with any other groups or anything like 
5 that? 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 A 
Q 
A I love when people ask me this question. 
I have to ask you, Mr. Tarrio. 
No. I'm saying I love when people ask me this question. 
Mr. Hull. Be serious. 
The Witness. And I'm dead-serious here. 
We're so bad at organizing, and we're so --excuse my language --stupid 
12 sometimes that, like, we can't even coordinate to, like, put our radios in sync. So I 
13 guess, yeah, I guess that was the idea, but it just never actually occurred that way. 
14 
15 Mr. Hull. Oath Keepers are good at that, though, aren't they? 
The Witness. Yeah, they have, like --from what I heard, they have, like, ham 
16 radio operators and whatever. I don't know the difference between, like, ham or --
17 Mr. Hull. It's like the difference between Frank Burns and John Belushi, you 
18 know, so --
19 
20 
21 The Witness. I don't know. 
Q I guess, I mean, we've heard --we've seen reporting, right, about --and 
22 Mr. Hull just mentioned, you all just mentioned the Oath Keepers, right? --the Oath 
23 Keepers bringing weapons to the D.C. area before January 6th. 
24 Were you aware of any Proud Boys bringing weapons for the January 6th rally? 142 
25 A No. I actually --I'm not aware of it. And I try to encourage the guys not  143 
1 to bring any weapons to events, really because, like, local laws. 
2 Q Okay. So you all were --or at least you were aware of the local laws of D.C. 
3 regarding weapons? 
4 
5 
6 A 
Q 
A Well, all except one. All except --
You knew --Mr. Tarrio, you knew where I was going, so --
Yeah, I knew where you were going with it. So, yeah, I just didn't know 
7 D.C. --I didn't know D.C. was that strict with magazines. They consider 30-round 
8 magazines to be high-capacity magazines. And that's the only law that I --that I knew in 
9 D.C. 
10 
11 
12 
13 Mr. Hull. I think you forgot about the 1776 shop. 
The Witness. You know. So. 
BY 
Q Okay. And I don't have to pull up --I can pull up the indictment if you want 
14 me to. I don't think it's necessary. But, in the indictment, it discusses a Ministry of 
15 Self-Defense. Do you recall this group? 
16 
17 
18 A 
Q 
A Yes. 
What was the Ministry of Self-Defense? 
So December 12th, to me, was very hectic. We had a lot of newer guys 
19 that got there. And basically what we're trying to do with it was trying to keep, like, the 
20 circle small. 
21 To travel to these events, like, when you go --again, when you go to, like, Austin 
22 or New York or D.C., it's usually the same guys, because, you know, we're either business 
23 owners and we can travel. And usually it consisted of, like, the cooler, collected people 
24 within, like, the group of friends. 
25 So what we didn't want to happen is the same thing that happened on December  1 12th, which was --
Mr. Hull. Like, grown-up Proud Boys. 
The Witness. Yeah. 144 
2 
3 
4 We didn't want people that were just going to run around everywhere and, like, 
5 cause a scene. So --and it's in the name, you know, "Self-Defense." That was a thing. 
6 Because I just felt like we had a lot of new guys that didn't understand who the Proud 
7 Boys were, you know? And I don't have --I don't have executive power, you know? 
8 can't kick people out. 
9 B~: 
10 
11 Q Right. 
A So, like, these new guys --I wanted to keep it to, like, "Hey, don't go out 
12 looking for trouble. Just let's stay in one place." 
13 And, actually, the Ministry of Self-Defense was created pre-January-6th so I 
14 could --so we can go in smaller groups to, like, these bigger rallies. 
15 Q I guess, do you recall when the Ministry of Self-Defense was created, 
16 approximately? 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 A I know for a fact it was created before the January 6th was announced. 
Q Okay. So before the December 19th probably? 
A It came out of --it came out of, like, my high stress on December 12th. 
Q Got it. 
I guess you said there was a bunch of new guys who may not have known what 
22 the Proud Boys were about. I'm going to break that into two questions. And I'm not 
23 going to ask both things --I don't want Mr. Hull to object to form. 
24 So the first question I'm going to ask is, who were the guys you trusted to be in 
25 this Ministry of Self-Defense?  145 
A Give me one second. 
Q Okay. 
[Discussion off the record.] 1 
2 
3 
4 The Witness. Okay. So I do want to go back to the previous question, focus on 
5 that a little bit more. 
6 
7 
8 
9 You there? You're with me? 
Q 
A BY 
I'm with you. Yeah, sorry. I'm looking down. I'm just writing. 
So, like --like, to go back on, like, the newer guys, newer guys, you know, 
10 they're not as calm, cool, and collected as some of the guys that are used to, like --that 
11 have been around for a long time. 
12 So, kind of, what I wanted to do is, I wanted to get the volume, the knob, and go 
13 from --because right there, those two events in November/December were huge. They 
14 were wild. There was so many people there. And what I wanted to do is, I wanted to 
15 get the volume and I wanted to bring it right back down to zero, right, and make less 
16 noise and be able to --just, the thing about the Proud Boys is that we can't forget to have 
17 fun, right? 
18 You know, Ethan --every time that we go out, like, Ethan has, like, a CamelBak 
19 with margarita mix in it, you know? 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 Mr. Hull. Be careful here. 
The Witness. And he's just --he's just, like --he's a big teddy bear. 
BY 
Q You said "Ethan." You mean, like, Mr. Nordean, right, Ethan Nordean? 
A Yeah. 
Q Okay. So -- Mr. Hull. Nothing ever happens until he takes a Pabst Blue Ribbon -­
The Witness. Yeah. 
Mr. Hull. --and then that starts things -­
The Witness. Yeah. 
Mr. Hull. --in the world. 146 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 The Witness. You know? And I think that --I think that it was important to get, 
7 like, a small group and be like, hey, we need to bring the volume down on things, we 
8 need to relax, we need to show these new guys what this group really is about, we need 
9 to show them, like, Gavin's podcast from back in 2016. And we created --we created 
10 this group in hopes that it would calm things down. 
11 BY 
12 Q So is it fair to say, like, the temperature kind of went up after the December 
13 12th stabbing? Which, you know, makes perfect sense. 
14 
15 
16 A Yeah. 
Q Is that fair to characterize it that way? 
A Yeah. Yeah, the temperature did go up, and I wanted to --I wanted to 
17 bring it down, you know --
18 
19 
20 
21 Q So who was in --
A It was never --
Q --this group? Sorry. 
A As we go through your timeline and we get closer to January 6th, then I 
22 guess we could hit that as we get here, you know, but the intent of the group was to bring 
23 the volume down. 
24 
25 Q So who was in this group? Do you recall who was in it? 
Mr. Hull. Some.  147 
1 The Witness. Some members, including, like you said, like, Ethan and Biggs. 
2 Some I didn't know who they were. But it was people that usually, again, were people 
3 that either Ethan Rufio or anybody else within their --like, trusted, you know, trusted to 
4 do --not be aggressive, not be aggro. 
5 
6 
7 Mr. Hull. Nobody with an axe handle was in the group. 
BY 
Q Who had, if you remember --because it sounds like you and Mr. Nordean 
8 might've had permissions to add people to the group. Do you know who you would've 
9 entrusted to have permissions --
10 
11 
12 A No. No, it wasn't just, like --
Q Couldn't get organized? 
A It wasn't just --yeah, it wasn't that organized. It wasn't that kind of party. 
13 It's like, "Hey, remember this guy? You know, he's always been --he's always been cool. 
14 You know, he's never been aggro. We can bring him in." 
15 Mr. Hull. Forgive me for saying this. We need a 15-minute break, okay? We 
16 do. 
17 Okay. That's fair. 
18 Mr. Hull. And --but, you know, we've all been in groups. And the group with 
19 the Proud Boys, a lot of the guys don't get it. They really don't get what it is. 
20 
21 - Right. 
Mr. Hull. They just don't. It's not just a matter of violence. They just --they 
22 make --you know, they think things that, you know --oh, they must be this and that, and 
23 that's not what they are, you know. Anyway --
24 
25 ~ Before we go on break -­
Mr. Hull. --we're -- 1 Wait, wait, wait. Before we go on break, Mr. Hull --was 
2 Mr. Bertino in this group? 
3 
4 
5 
6 The Witness. That I remember, probably. 
~ Okay. 
Let's go on break and come back at 2:50 p.m. 
Mr. Hull. Wait. But before we go --wait a minute. Not on January 6th, 
7 though, because he was stabbed. 
8 The Witness. No. Yeah. 
9 Oh, but was he in the Ministry of Self-Defense group at all? 
10 Like --
11 
12 Mr. Hull. I doubt it. You could --
The Witness. You know what? Actually, you know what? I'm going to take 
13 back my answer on that, and I'm going to tell you I don't know --
14 Okay. 
The Witness. --if he was. 
Mr. Hull. He was home. 
The Witness. Yeah --
It was --it was a messaging group, though, right? 
The Witness. A what? 
It was, like, a phone group, like, a group chat, right? 148 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 The Witness. Yeah, there was a group chat. But groups --here's another thing. 
22 Group chats with Proud Boys, like, everybody starts making, like, a million chats all over 
23 the place, and it's --
24 Okay. 
25 Mr. Hull. When was MOSD started, about what date?  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 The Witness. He asked me that. 
Mr. Hull. I know, but --
The Witness. I said, it had to --I know for a fact it was before January 6th. 
Mr. Hull. After the --149 
The Witness. I mean, before the --yeah, before the --that we knew January 6th 
6 was going to be an event, before that time is when we decided to do this. 
7 Mr. Hull. But there wouldn't have been those initials without the stabbings, 
8 correct? 
9 The Witness. There wouldn't --it wouldn't be called --so Dan brings something 
10 up. It wouldn't be called "Ministry of Self-Defense" if, like, the guys didn't get stabbed 
11 and we were worried about having more issues. 
12 
13 
14 Got it. All right. 
The Witness. Fifteen minutes. 
Let's take a break, and we'll come back at, like, a little after 2:50 
15 eastern time. We're off the record now. 
16 
17 
18 
19 [Recess.] 
All right. We'll go back on the record at 2:55 p.m. eastern time. 
BY 
Q So I had just asked about the group chat or if there was a group chat for the 
20 Ministry of Self-Defense. And I guess my next question was going to be, how did you all 
21 primarily communicate as a group then? 
22 
23 
24 A Just in general, we use --I've been using Telegram for, like, the past 4 years. 
Q Okay. 
A [Inaudible] years, actually. And I've used it basically for everything. It's 
25 just an easier platform.  1 
2 
3 Q 
A 
Q 
4 remember? Got it. Did you all have any, like, video calls or anything like that? 
We've had video calls before, yeah. 
You did? Okay. I guess, what was discussed on these video calls, if you 150 
5 A I mean, I guess --I'm trying to see if what, like, specific --is there a specific, 
6 like --
7 Q Yeah. I mean, was a plan then --I mean, you just explained to me that on 
8 December 12th, you know, individuals from your org had been stabbed, Ministry of 
9 Self-Defense was created. Now you're talking about going to D.C. on January 6th. So I 
10 don't want to assume, but was January 6th discussed in your Ministry of Self-Defense call 
11 or calls? 
12 
13 
14 A 
Q 
A The event and --the event and itinerary was discussed, yes. 
What was the itinerary? 
At first --so the way that this worked is, President Trump didn't announce 
15 that he was going to speak there until, I think, a couple days before January 6th. So 
16 there was a whole bunch of people with different stages. There was stages all over, and 
17 people were all separate. "Oh, we're going to do this at 11 o'clock." And I thought it 
18 was very disorganized, how everybody just wanted to do their own thing, instead of just 
19 having one stage. 
20 So, at first, the plan was to, like, go from stage to stage. First, we were going to 
21 meet at the Washington Monument; then we were going to go from stage to stage. And 
22 then a couple days --like I said, a couple days before, then President Trump said, we're 
23 going to go speak. 
24 And that caused, like, pandemonium between the people that paid so much 
25 money for stages, to pull permits and stuff like that. And there wasn't a unifying thing  151 
1 between them, because they already had money --they were already committed to 
2 having stages. 
3 So I said, "You know what? Screw this, guys. Let's just go watch President 
4 Trump speak." So there was communications of, when those changes occurred, what 
5 was going to happen. 
6 But one thing that will always remain constant was that we were going to meet at 
7 the Washington Monument in the morning. And then, after we decided --after 
8 President Trump said that he was going to speak and I said, forget it, let's just do this, 
9 really the plan was: stay at the Washington Monument the whole day, take some 
10 pictures, things like that. 
11 And, later on, what we wanted to do, because of the lockdowns in D.C. --we 
12 usually go to Harry's bar --
13 
14 Q 
A Uh-huh. 
--but, you know, it's a very small place, and the restrictions were, like --they 
15 were ridiculous. They were, like, 10 people or something like that that can go into 
16 Harry's at once. And I had mentioned, "Let's go to Virginia. Let's cross the bridge. 
17 Let's go to Virginia. We can go to a bar over there right after the President speaks." 
18 I didn't --one thing I didn't want to do is, I didn't --we did, like, night marches in 
19 November and December. And something I forgot to mention in this whole thing, I got 
20 stabbed too. I got stabbed on election night, along with three other people, one of 
21 them including Bevelyn Beatty. 
22 And, you know, I just --between that day and December 12th, I had, like, sort of, 
23 like, PTSD. And I wanted to get out of the city and go into Virginia or Maryland at night, 
24 later on, in the late afternoon, early evening, to just get out of the city. I didn't want, 
25 like, us, like, marching around D.C. and, like, risk getting screwed up.  152 
1 Q Did the rest of the Ministry of Self-Defense agree with that plan, like, to get 
2 out of the city before nightfall? 
3 A Yeah, for the most part we did. 
4 I usually don't --I usually, like, put an itinerary down, like, the day before, but 
5 unfortunately I wasn't available to put down that itinerary. 
6 But I know that --I remember calling Rufio --Ethan --I remember calling Ethan 
7 probably early on January 6th in the morning and telling him, "Hey, when you guys finish, 
8 like, instead of partying somewhere else, can you guys come to, like, Baltimore, and we 
9 can party here." 
10 And that was a little curveball that I threw them at the end, because I wanted to 
11 hang with my brothers, you know? Like, the only way I could hang with them, because I 
12 couldn't be in D.C., was for them to come to Baltimore. 
13 Q So I want to go back to when you said, like, the different events and permits 
14 and stuff. What events --who were you tracking or organizing these different events on 
15 January 6th? 
16 A I know --I know Ali had a stage. I had heard about that. Bianca had a 
17 stage too. And there was a whole bunch of other ones, like, the Women for America 
18 First or something like that, or Women for Trump or something like that, had an event 
19 too. 
20 
21 Q 
A Uh-huh. 
So that was basically the ones that I know about. I don't know if there 
22 was --and I wouldn't be surprised if there was a lot more. 
23 
24 Q No. No. That's helpful. 
And which --I know you said, like, there was a bunch of events. Did the Proud 
25 Boys have an event that they were planning to attend over one of the others? Or was it  153 
1 just --
2 A I mean, the only one --the only one that --at one point, there was 
3 two --actually, there was two events that we were planning on going to, possibly. 
4 Because I know that it was an "if" if we were going to go to Bianca's stage so I could speak 
5 for a little bit. 
6 
7 Q 
A Uh-huh. 
And then the second thing is --and this is before my arrest --we were 
8 planning on --one of the members of the Proud Boys is the lead singer for the Misfits, or 
9 was the lead singer for the Misfits. So he was going to do, like, a little private --like, he 
10 gets on the acoustic guitar and he sings. And that was something that was in the plans 
11 for us to do. 
12 I don't know what the --I don't know what the guys did with that plan. 
13 Obviously that plan went to crap because of the events that happened at the Capitol that 
14 day. But I know that that was --that was in our plans. 
15 
16 
17 
18 Mr. Hull. Michale Graves. 
The Witness. Yeah, Michale Graves was his name --is his name. 
BY 
Q So I guess --and I'm just going to --this is just a followup to what you just 
19 said. You didn't coordinate with the Women for America First folks to talk about coming 
20 on January 6th or anything? 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A Not that I could remember. 
Okay. Did you speak --
Is it possible --
--with Mr. Alexander --huh? 
So here's the thing. Is it possible that, like, one of them called me and  1 asked me to speak at it? Yes. And I remember somebody doing so, but I don't 
2 remember --it was a woman. But I don't remember if it was --what stage that was. 
3 
4 Q Could it possibly have been for the January 5th event at Freedom Plaza? 
A I was confused --specifically with that one, I was confused whether that 
5 person --and I don't remember her name --whether it was --was she wanted me to 
6 speak on January 5th or January 6th. That was a confusion beforehand. 
7 
8 
9 Q Okay. Do you recall --
Mr. Hull. I can't tell you the name. I don't know. 
The Witness. Huh? 
BY 
Do you recall getting a VIP pass for the events on January 6th? 154 
10 
11 
12 Q 
A I remember somebody saying that they --somebody saying that they had VIP 
13 passes to the Trump event, like, to see Trump speak. I remember that. But I 
14 remember declining it because I didn't want 1 VIP; I needed, you know, 40. 
15 Q Okay. So you didn't want to go without the rest of the Proud Boys that you 
16 were going there with? 
17 A Yeah. I mean, it would look kind of shitty for me, like, to just leave the guys 
18 there to go watch the President speak. I've seen the President speak a million times, 
19 and it's --like, after, like, going to an event where you have to wait 8 hours outside, then 
20 wait 2 hours for set-up, 3 hours of other people speaking, to listen to him speak, you kind 
21 of get bored of it. 
22 
23 
24 you? 
25 Q Right. Right. 
You said "someone." Do you recall specifically who coordinated that VIP pass for 
A No.  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 Q Was it Gracia? 
A Here's the thing --no, it wasn't Gracia. 
Q Okay. 
A It might've been the same person that --again, don't quote me on this. 
Q Okay. 
A It might be the same person that held the event on February 5th. 
Q So was it Ms. Cindy Chafian? 
A One thing --Cindy, I remember the name. 155 
9 But I remember there being, like, this Spanish novela issue where there was two 
10 women and one owned the group and one had the permit, and they got in a fight, they 
11 got in an argument, and then she didn't let go of the permit and she held her own event, 
12 while the other person --I don't know if this is something that you know about, but I'm 
13 just telling you, like, I remember that debacle. 
14 Q Okay. But was it one of those women that reached out to you about the 
15 VIP and speaking? 
16 A It could be. It could be. 
17 
18 Q Okay. But you don't recall if it was Ms. Chafian versus Ms. Kremer? 
A I don't --here's something. I don't want you to think, like, I'm just not 
19 saying names. 
20 
21 Q Oh, I know you're not. 
A I have so many people, so many people that just reach out. And I've had 
22 problems before where people, like, name-drop me, right? And they're like, oh, Enrique 
23 told me that he's going to go speak on the stage, like, beforehand, and I'm like, I don't 
24 even know who that is. 
25 Q Okay. And I think you can appreciate me just having to ask the question.  1 
2 
3 
4 A Yeah. 
Q And I understand that you're providing the answer. So --
A Yeah. 
Q --you don't recall if it was a Ms. Chafian or a Ms. Kremer that called you 
5 about the VIP pass? 
6 
7 A No. I remember the name that you gave before, Cindy. 
Q Cindy. Okay. Okay. And it was the same person that asked you to 
8 speak that might've coordinated the VIP pass? 
A I think so. 
Q Okay. 
A And I do want to go back on this Kelly Meggs thing --
Q Okay. 
A --because I thought about that while I was downstairs. 156 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 So a 3-minute --I saw it said, like, 3 minutes and 26 seconds. I could guarantee 
15 you that somebody that just called me that I just met --let's say, I didn't meet them on 
16 December 12th. Like, in a 3-minute conversation, I'm not going to talk to them about, 
17 "Oh, yeah, we're going to work together, brother," or whatever. You know, I'll usually, 
18 like, vet somebody and be like, you know, "Hey, what's your group? What are you 
19 guying planning on doing?" Blah, blah, blah. Just something like that. 
20 In a 3-minute conversation, I guarantee you most of that was, like, just probably 
21 him going, "Hey, I got your number through this person," or whatever. Or it could 
22 be --look, listen. It could be, "Oh, you gave me your number at the D.C. rally on 
23 December 12th." It could be. I don't know. 
24 But one thing I do know, that I never want to coordinate with another group. 
25 That's a given. Like, it's always --it always becomes a pain in the butt.  157 
1 Q I guess, rather than using the term "coordinate," would you have wanted to 
2 be aware of, for example, the Oath Keepers being there on January 6th? 
3 
4 
5 A 
Q 
A I would tell you --1 would tell you no, because I know that they'd come. 
Okay. 
It's like, for sure they're coming. It's not a, oh, are you guys coming if 
6 something --it's like, okay, I know the Oath Keepers are gonna be there. 
7 Q But you said earlier you didn't really recall the conversation with Mr. Meggs. 
8 So is what you're saying, you're just kind of saying, this is what would've happened within 
9 that 3 minutes? Or do you actually remember the call? 
10 A Yeah, I'm just saying what would've --like, there's absolutely no chance that 
11 I told him anything along the lines of "Hey, brother, we're going to work together" in the 
12 3-minute call. Just, I know it's not. 
13 
14 
15 Q Got it. 
, can we put up --
The Witness. Within this conversation that we're having, sometimes --like, I talk 
16 a lot, you know? And Dan's been like, "Hey, you know, let him ask the question." I talk 
17 a lot. So a 3-minute conversation with me is basically, "Who are you? How are you 
18 doing?" 
19 Mr. Hull. - and I get name-dropped a lot, so we understand this. 
20 Okay. No. Just answer the --
21 
22 The Witness. Yeah. So. 
Mr. Hull. Good. You got anything other things you want to add to past 
23 questions? 
24 
25 The Witness. Yeah, I'm not going to add anything else. 
Go ahead.  158 
1 Mr. Hull. All right. Go ahead, sir. 
3 ___ I was just going to check in on Mr. Hull and see if you were okay. 
4 It looked like you were slouching over for a moment and your head was nodding, so I just 
5 wanted to make sure you were all right. 
6 Mr. Hull. I'm fine. I have a cold. And I've been in a bad mood for about a 
7 year. But thank you for asking. I'm okay. 
8 
9 Okay. Good. All right. Thanks. 
Mr. Hull. No, no, I appreciate it. 
10 Can we pull up exhibit 37? 
11 And just, like, I know you all see the timeline, so we're getting closer and closer to 
12 January 6th, so thank you for bearing with me. 
13 Can you pull up exhibit 37,_? 
14 Mr. Hull. Come on, guys. 
15 BY 
16 Q Okay. So, just to give you background, this is a New York Times article that 
17 reported that a member of the Proud Boys was in communication with a member of the 
18 Trump White House in the days before January 6th. 
19 
20 A 
Q Yes. 
And I just wanted to ask, were you in contact with anyone from the Trump 
21 campaign or the Trump White House in the days prior to January 6th? 
22 
23 Mr. Hull. Can we look at this just for a second and read it? 
Sure. Sure. Take your time, and just let-know when 
24 to scroll down. 
25 The Witness. You're going to have to get closer to it.  1 
2 
3 159 
Mr. Hull. I'm --I'm --
The Witness. Or, you can see? 
Mr. Hull. I can see --yeah, I don't want to nod off while I'm doing it. Read it. 
4 Come on. Let's go. 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 So --oh, it's Alan Feuer. 
The Witness. Yeah. 
Mr. Hull. Have you ever seen this before? 
The Witness. I've read that. I already know what it's stating. 
Mr. Hull. Okay. "I'm done. Proceed, sir." 
The Witness. Okay. Ask the question again. 
Q All I asked is, were you in contact with anyone from the Trump campaign or 
13 the Trump White House in the days prior to January 6th? 
14 
15 A Absolutely not. 
Q Are you familiar with any Proud Boys making this communication to the 
16 White House? 
17 A No. And I guarantee you that whoever he's --whoever Alan sourced that 
18 from is just somebody that just told him that. 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 Q Okay. 
A Because I guarantee you none of my guys have contacts in the White House. 
Mr. Hull. He's a good writer, though. 
Okay. 
Thank you, You can take that exhibit down. 
Mr. Hull. I remember that. I don't remember the article, though. 
BY  160 
1 Q So now we're up to --we touched on this earlier when I was discussing your 
2 knowledge of D.C. law, and then we kind of joked about, you thought you knew them 
3 pretty well. 
4 So just walk us through what happened on January 4th, then. 
5 A So, on January 4th, I arrived in D.C. Soon as I got out of the gate of my 
6 airplane, I knew that I was being followed by --I knew it had to be Metropolitan Police 
7 Department. 
8 So I got my bags, I got an Uber, and they pulled --like, I was charged with a 
9 misdemeanor. There was a warrant out for my arrest for a misdemeanor. And they 
10 pulled me over like I was Noriega. They stopped --it was traffic hour, and they stopped 
11 traffic. They pointed their guns at the car. They got me out of the car. 
12 And then, after that, they did find two, what D.C. considers to be high-capacity 
13 magazines. Florida, those are standard-capacity magazines. And, as a matter of fact, 
14 Florida, there's no such thing as high-capacity magazines. You can buy a drum for your 
15 AR. 
16 But the reason why I had those is because I have a fiber-laser machine at my office 
17 where I can customize, you know, all sorts of things, from rings to mugs to magazines. 
18 And I was bringing those two AR magazines for a customer that I had never met that lived 
19 in Maryland. Because I tried to ship them to him once, and then I guess he put the 
20 address wrong, and then they returned them. 
21 And, you know, I don't know D.C. --1 don't know the laws in D.C. about magazines, 
22 so I had them in my bag. And they arrested me, and I found out that it was a --it's a 
23 felony in the District. 
24 Q So you weren't allowed to enter the District; you were stopped before you 
25 could even get in?  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 161 
A No, I got in, because they --
Q Got it. 
A I guess they had to wait till I was --
Q Yep. Being it's the District? Gotcha. 
A Yeah. Because in Virginia --
Q Where did you fly into? Did you fly into Reagan National Airport? 
A Yeah. 
Q Okay. And you caught an Uber, I'm assuming, or a taxi of some sort? 
A I caught an Uber. 
Q And then, as you were getting into the District, as soon as you crossed the 
11 line is when you got pulled over for a misdemeanor? Is that your --I just want to make 
12 sure I understand --
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 A Yes. 
Q --what you said. 
Mr. Hull. No, you're not. 
BY 
Q Okay. And then you stayed in jail overnight, between January 4th --
A Overnight. 
Q --andSth? 
A Overnight. And then the judge --the judge saved my life. 
Mr. Hull. Let him ask you the question. 
The Witness. Yeah. The judge --
BY 
Q Well, my next question is going to be, how did the judge save your life? 
A So the judge --there's multiple parts to this answer, but the judge decided  162 
1 that there's "Black Lives Matter" banners all over the city, and she kept me out of the 
2 District because of that. 
3 And I think --it's not that she saved my life much. I think that if I would've not 
4 been arrested, had I not been arrested that day and I was present on January 6th, I 
5 honestly believe that none of the Proud Boys would be arrested, because I wouldn't have 
6 let them step foot close to the Capitol. 
7 
8 Q Okay. 
Were you aware at all at this time, I guess, when you flew into D.C., 
9 that --because you mentioned "march" earlier. What were the Proud Boys supposed to 
10 be marching to from the Washington Monument? 
11 A So we weren't gonna --we weren't gonna march, per se, but the only --the 
12 only thing that we kind of thought that we were going to do --because I wanted to stay at 
13 the Washington Monument. I didn't want to move from the Washington Monument, 
14 originally. But the only place that we were going to walk to is to wherever Bianca's 
15 stage was, if I was going to speak at the stage. 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A Okay. 
At that time, I didn't know if I was going to or not. 
And Ms. Gracia's stage, that was on the Capitol Grounds, right? 
I have no idea where it was. 
Okay. 
Later on, I --because somebody questioned me about it. They're like, you 
22 know his stage was on the Capitol Grounds? And then I said, yeah. 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A 
Q Who questioned you about it? 
A reporter. 
A reporter? Okay.  163 
1 So you stay in jail overnight between the January 4th and 5th. It sounds like the 
2 judge ordered you out of the District as soon as you got out of jail on the 5th. Is that 
3 correct? 
4 
5 A Yes. 
Q Where were you going to stay before you were ordered out of the District 
6 for January 5th? 
7 
8 A I was going to stay --I was going to stay at the Phoenix Park Hotel. 
Q Okay. And so that's when, we talked about earlier, Ms. Harris picked you 
9 up from the jail on January 5th? 
10 A Ms. Harris wasn't the person who picked me up. Ms. Harris was there. 
11 The person whose car I rode in was actually --what's the guy's name, the other --the U.K. 
12 reporter? 
13 
14 Mr. Hull. Quested, Nick Quested. 
The Witness. Nick --Nick --Nick's --I believe a friend of his, his pickup truck or 
15 something from D.C. 
16 BY 
17 Q Got it. And that's when, earlier you said, you went to Baltimore, or you had 
18 the meeting in the garage --
19 
20 
21 A I --
Q --that meeting, and then you went to Baltimore? 
A First, so I got out of jail. I jumped in the truck with Nick. Then I went 
22 to --and Amy was there. I went to the Phoenix so they could grab their bags. I met 
23 with Bianca in the garage. We talked about that. And then, from the garage, we got 
24 back in the car, and we drove to Baltimore. 
25 Q How did you book the room in Baltimore? Like, when did that happen?  164 
I think I booked it right on the way over there. 
Did you book it yourself, or did you have someone book it for you? 1 
2 
3 A 
Q 
A I got --I think I had my --I think I had my mom book it. I'm not 100 percent 
4 sure on that, but --
5 
6 
7 
8 it? 
9 
10 Q Okay. 
A --I think it was that my mom booked it. 
Q And how were you familiar with this hotel? Or were you not familiar with 
A I wasn't. It's just, like, hotels.com. Like, cheap hotel? Cool. 
Q Got it. 
11 Was there anything else that you did, other than, like, you left, you went to the 
12 Hotel Phoenix, picked up your stuff, met briefly it sounds like in the garage, and then you 
13 drove to Baltimore. Anything else that you all did? Stops you made along the way? 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 A I had to pick up --I had to pick up my property from the D.C. --
Q Sure. 
A --from the Metropolitan Police station. 
Q And was there any other stops you made? 
A Not that I could recall. 
Q Okay. 
A 
Q Stopped for chips and gas and shit. Sorry. 
Understood. Understood. 
So now we get to the morning of the 6th. And I want to go back to a VIP 
23 question I had for you. Where --at least we understand that Mr. Bertino was listed as 
24 your plus-one for the VIP. 
25 A Uh-huh.  165 
1 Q Do you know how that could've came about? Did you maybe put his name 
2 down? 
3 A So Bertino had just gotten stabbed, and I think that Bianca wanted him to 
4 speak on stage too. 
5 
6 Q Okay. 
A And I think that, when they called for the VIP thing, it was --you could bring 
7 one other person, and I just said Bertina's name. And I think that that's how that came 
8 about. 
9 
10 Q Okay. 
So, then, moving to the morning of January 6th, just walk us through your 
11 morning. What did you do in the morning of January 6th? 
12 A I woke up late. I remember, I have this little one-wheel electric 
13 skateboard --
14 
15 Q 
A Uh-huh. 
--and I didn't have a phone, and I remember having to go to AT&T. I did 
16 have my ID, and I went to AT&T, and I went and I financed --I purchased a new phone. 
17 And that was probably around, like, 1 o'clock, around there, give or take. 
18 Q So you woke up late. What time, if you --like, approximately what time did 
19 you wake up? 
20 
21 A Approximately maybe around, like, 11 o'clock. 
Q Okay. And what time were the Proud Boys supposed to assemble at the 
22 Washington Monument? 
23 A They were supposed to assemble at 10. But now that you mention it, I 
24 probably woke up around that time. Because I remember having a conversation with 
25 somebody that they were on the way --and I think it was Ethan, if I'm not mistaken.  166 
1 remember having a conversation with Ethan before he got there, like, he was on his way 
2 over there or something. 
3 
4 Q 
A What was Ethan's mood when you talked to him that morning? 
Oh, he was pretty happy, you know. And he was --another thing, like, I 
5 remember, like, everybody --1 got out of jail and everybody asked me, "Oh, how are you," 
6 or something like that. So a lot of the conversations really had, "Oh, it sucks that you're 
7 not going to be out here," you know, things like that. 
Q Okay. 8 
9 
10 
11 
12 Who was with you in Baltimore on the morning of January 6th? 
A 
Q 
A After the documentary crew left, I was by myself. 
What time did the documentary crew leave? 
They left early. They probably left around, like --I don't remember, but I 
13 guarantee you they probably left around, like, 5 or 6. 
14 Q Did you tell the documentary crew where the Proud Boys were going to 
15 assemble that morning, on January 6th? 
16 A I don't remember if I did or didn't. 
17 Q Was Ms. Harris part of that documentary crew that left in the morning of 
18 January 6th? 
19 
20 A 
Q Yes. 
I guess, if you know, my question is, how did Ms. Harris and some of the 
21 other documentary crew know that the Proud Boys were going to be at the Washington 
22 Monument that morning? 
23 A Because the Washington Monument was always, like, the place where we 
24 were going to meet. That was always, like, the --that was pretty constant from day one, 
25 that we were going to meet at the Washington Monument.  167 
1 The reason why we picked the Washington Monument is because it was in the 
2 middle of where all the crowds were, and we didn't want to be at the edge of the 
3 protests, because that's where counter-protesters would be. 
4 And since there was only about, like, 40 of them that were there, give or 
5 take --you know, when you have numbers and you have, like, 1,200 people, you could be 
6 at the edge of the protest and have no problems. But, you know, between me getting 
7 stabbed, them getting stabbed on December 12th, us not having a big amount of people 
8 there, it just wouldn't be a smart idea to be where the counter-protesters were. 
9 
10 Q Okay. 
Were you --and I want to ask this in two parts because I'm being conscious of 
11 form here again. So my first part is, did you talk to --I believe you said Nick, the 
12 documentary crew. Were you talking to that individual throughout the day on January 
13 6th? 
14 A Not that I could --not that I remember. I don't think I had --the thing is, I 
15 don't think too many people had reception. 
16 
17 Q That makes sense. But I'm going to ask the question --
A Could it be that I talked to them once? Probably. I remember trying to 
18 call --I remember trying to call Amy, and she didn't pick up. And somebody had 
19 found --like, I guess she dropped her phone, and somebody found her phone. But then 
20 eventually she found it again. So --
21 Q So you had tried to call Ms. Harris, though, on January 6th and you weren't 
22 able to connect with her? 
A Huh? I'm sorry? 23 
24 Q You weren't able to connect with her, but you tried to call her during the day 
25 on January -- 1 
2 
3 A 
Q 
A I tried. I attempted. 
I guess, what were you calling her about, if you remember? 
I think it's because I couldn't get in contact with anybody. And to go --I 
4 guess I'd --we have to go back on the time line of what I was doing that morning --
Yes, please. 
--for where we are now. 
Yep. Please. 168 
5 
6 
7 
8 Q 
A 
Q 
A So I got a new phone --I finally got a new phone. And that's when I was --I 
9 remember getting back to the room and nobody picking up my phone calls, and I found 
10 that really weird. And, you know, I had no news apps or anything like that. And I 
11 remember getting in bed and watching the news, turning on the news and just watching. 
12 At first, the news stories --because the news was really slow to start saying what 
13 was happening. And I remember the first story I heard, was, oh, protesters --Trump 
14 protesters are in the Capitol. And I remember going, "Hell, yeah!" Because I 
15 thought --I didn't think that they broke in. I thought what had happened was, like, 
16 somebody took a Capitol tour and was doing, like, a sit-in. That's what I thought was 
17 occurring. 
18 And as the afternoon progressed, we started seeing more and more images from 
19 inside the Capitol, I was getting more and more information, and that's when I started, 
20 like, calling everybody, asking to see if everybody's okay. And --
21 Q So the first time you became aware that the Capitol was being breached is 
22 when people were already inside? 
23 
24 A 
Q Yes. 
You weren't tracking on the news, you know, people breaking through the 
25 first gates or anything like that?  169 
1 A No. No, because the first --when I got back, that's the only method of 
2 news that I have. You know, I don't have a Twitter account or anything like that. And I 
3 didn't --when I first got the phone, the phone part worked but the data part didn't. So I 
4 didn't really have data. So I couldn't, like, look up news stories or anything. Shortly 
5 before I got to the hotel, though, it started working. But I didn't --I didn't know about 
6 the Capitol breach until I turned on the TV. 
7 Q Got it. 
8 And you mentioned that you spoke to Mr. Nordean the morning of January 6th. 
9 Did you speak with any other Proud Boys that morning or early afternoon? 
10 
11 
12 A I probably spoke to Biggs in the morning. 
Q And, again, what was that about, if you recall? 
A It was probably --it was probably the same conversation, like, "Be safe. 
13 Have a good day. Fuck, I wish I was there." Sorry I keep cussing. 
14 
15 
16 Q 
A It's all right. We're all adults. 
You know, "Wish I was there." Those were the conversations I had. 
Q There was no discussion, though, about going down to the Capitol or 
17 anything with Mr. --
18 
19 
20 A No. 
Q --Nordean? 
A No. No. As a matter of fact, the Capitol wasn't mentioned in any of our 
21 chats until, like, about 2:30, and it was, like, a news story that somebody had posted. 
22 
23 
24 
25 Q So you're --
A Because --
Q 
A I'm sorry. Keep going. 
So nobody was able to communicate, like, with people at the Capitol, and  170 
1 those people couldn't communicate with us. So I think the only thing was, like, 
2 somebody that wasn't there had posted, like, a story about the Capitol being --and that's 
3 the first time within our communications that, like, we're talking about the Capitol. 
4 Q I guess my question is, the event with Ms. Gracia was supposed to happen 
5 on the Capitol Grounds, correct? Is that --
6 
7 A 
Q Yep. 
So why would the Proud Boys go down to the Capitol? Like, what was your 
8 understanding of why they would go down to the Capitol? 
9 A So my understanding of that is, every time --we go to D.C. a lot. We have 
10 two annual events; one's in Vegas and one's in D.C. on Fourth of July. And, like, 
11 something that we love doing is taking pictures or having great pictures taken of us. 
12 So I'm guessing that one of the reasons why --they definitely didn't go to the 
13 Capitol to go to Bianca's thing, because they didn't have contact with Bianca. I'm the 
14 one that had contact with Bianca. So I'm guessing that they went to the Capitol just to 
15 take pictures. That's what I assumed. 
16 
17 Q 
A Okay. 
There's a video of Ethan, like, walking on the National Mall and going, "Hey, 
18 guys, we're gonna go over here for a little bit, and then we're gonna come right back to 
19 the Washington Monument." And they were walking on the way to the Capitol. 
20 
21 
22 
23 Mr. Hull. He asked a question and -­
The Witness. I'm sorry. Go ahead. 
Q No. No. Thank you. That's helpful context. 
24 Before I move on, I do --did you see Ms. Harris? I know you tried to call her, she 
25 didn't pick up. Did you talk to her at all afterwards on January 6th?  171 
1 A Yeah. Both Nick and Amy came back, and they did, like, a stock interview 
2 of, like, what I felt, what I was feeling at the time. 
3 Q What did they tell you about, like, what had happened that day? What'd 
4 they tell you or describe for you when they got back? 
5 A I mean, they --you know, they were describing --I mean, all I could see is 
6 what was happening on TV, you know, and what I saw on Twitter. Because at that time I 
7 already had Twitter. I was able to, like, at least view it without signing in. You know, 
8 and they were --they were shocked, you know? They were completely and utterly 
9 shocked at what happened. 
10 
11 Q And what was your response to what was happening? 
A I was too. So I never thought --I never thought that that was possible. 
12 never thought that --
13 
14 Mr. Hull. You could be shocked at a -­
The Witness. Yeah. 
15 I mean, you know, I'm not going to tell you that I didn't --and I've said this before. 
16 I'm not going to tell you that I don't feel some type of way about the government, right? 
17 I have my views that I think that the government, the United States Government, is a bit 
18 oppressive. But that doesn't mean that those images didn't shock me. You know, I 
19 didn't think it was real. 
20 And one of the things that I said --I said this on live TV, because I did an interview 
21 with Univision later on that night. You know, how did the Blue Lives Matter crew, you 
22 know, Trump supporters with the thin blue line, turn into, "Hey, we're going to beat up 
23 cops"? I don't know how that happens. You know, that was shocking to me.  172 
1 [3:30 p.m.] 
2 , can we pull up exhibit 36? 
3 So I hear what you're just saying. I just want to help us square this now. And 
4 let's pull up exhibit 36. 
5 B~ 
6 Q It looks like --and this is the day after, on January 7th. It looks like you're 
7 celebrating it on January 6th. So help us understand your previous answer with this 
8 Parler post from January 7th. 
9 A I'm going to --I'm going to --I'm going to answer this question just on how I 
10 feel. 
11 Q Okay. 
12 A I could be shocked about the events of January 6th and not agree with the 
13 violence that happened that day, because I don't. I can't tell you that I condone the 
14 violence that happened that day. 
15 But my feelings, my personal feelings, is Congress sits there and they come into 
16 work every day and they check a box and they play politics. And sometimes those boxes 
17 that they check have ramifications where they'll send the military --this goes back to, like, 
18 my argument with the Bush thing. Like, thousands of servicemembers died because 
19 Congress decided to declare war on a country that we shouldn't be there. 
20 So I can't tell you --I don't agree with what happened, and I wish they didn't feel 
21 this way. But I'm not --I'm also --I'm not binary. I can't tell you that I am sympathetic 
22 to these people that have made friends of mine die overseas for war, for profits in oil 
23 companies and corporations. I just --I'm not. I'm sorry. Like, I --
24 
25 Mr. Hull. You answered the question. 
Can someone tell me --I've seen the picture before. I know what it is. When  173 
1 was it actually taken, and when was it actually posted? I assume that --
This was posted by Mr. Tarrio on January 7th. 2 
3 Mr. Hull. No, on the 7th? Okay. And it was taken on the 6th around 2 o'clock 
4 in the afternoon, something like that? 
5 The Witness. This is a picture that was probably, like, on the news or something 
6 like that. 
7 Yeah. 
8 
9 Mr. Hull. Okay. 
The Witness. Yeah. So I just don't --I don't want to mix two things. Because 
10 my position's always been the same. If you assaulted a police officer, you should be 
11 arrested, right? If you trespass, you should be arrested. If you broke something or 
12 stole something, you should be arrested. 
13 I don't think that January 6th should've happened. I wish I can take --I wish I can 
14 get in a time machine and stand in front of the police line and speak to those people in 
15 front of that line and say, "Don't do it." I wish I can do that. I can't. 
16 
17 Mr. Hull. Don't take the Proud Boys down to the Hill. 
The Witness. But I will tell you with almost 100 percent certainty that if I 
18 would've been on the ground on January 6th there would be absolutely zero Proud Boys 
19 that got arrested. 
20 
21 
22 Q Why do you believe that? 
A Because of the things that I've done in the past when we go to these events 
23 and these rallies. 
24 On December 12th, I coordinated with Metropolitan Police Department to keep 
25 my guys away --on these marches, to keep them away from counter-protesters  174 
1 completely. I walked --Metropolitan Police Department --I would say, "Hey, I want to 
2 march to the monument," and they'd tell me, "Hey, there's counter-protesters between 
3 where you are and the monument is." And I'd be like, "Okay, I'm not going to march 
4 over there. We'll march in the opposite direction." And they've called me and they've 
5 told me, "Hey, going towards your direction, there's a big group of counter-protesters," 
6 and I'd leave that. 
7 When we'd see a police line --when we'd see a police line and we're marching --I 
8 don't like being face-to-face with police officers. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it because 
9 it brings a level of anxiety in both parties that I don't like. It makes for horrible pictures. 
10 You know, people confronting police officers like that makes for horrible pictures. 
11 And I'll give you the two examples of the two times that I went to Portland. 
12 In case you don't know, downtown Portland, there's this park called Chapman 
13 Park, and members of antifa in that local sector claimed that to be their park. That's 
14 their turf or whatever. 
15 So we want to exercise our First Amendment rights in downtown Portland. So I 
16 already know this, coming, before I do anything. So I announced a big event for 
17 downtown Portland. I'll coordinate with local Portland Police Bureau, I coordinate with 
18 the FBI, and I tell them, "Hey, we're coming into town. This is our plans. This is what 
19 we're going to do." And then, last minute, you know, if I were to bring a bunch of 
20 Trump supporters and put them right next to antifa, it's like we're looking for trouble, 
21 right? 
22 
23 Q 
A Right. 
But 2 days before that event, I changed where the location of the event is, 
24 and I'm across town in a park, and we're throwing a barbecue --we're throwing a 
25 barbecue. We've got a stage going. We've got beer, free beer, for everybody. And  175 
1 we've done that --I've done that three times. 
2 I never want to get --up until December 12th, I prided myself in saying, every 
3 event that I've been to or I've put together, I've brought my guys home, none of them 
4 injured, none of them arrested. And I couldn't say that on December 12th, because four 
5 guys got stabbed, three of them in the ICU. And that's when, like, I realized something 
6 and I wanted to change the way we did things. 
7 And on January 6th, again, I'd tell you, I wish I was there. I wish I was there. 
8 Because at least, at the very least, I would've stopped my best friends from going in. 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 Mr. Hull. Let him ask --
The Witness. Because there was --
Mr. Hull. Let him ask a question now. 
The Witness. Okay. Go ahead. Sorry. 
Can we take this exhibit down,_ 
BY 
Q I guess the question is, why didn't you tell folks not to go to D.C. on 
16 January 6th at all, if you were feeling this way before? 
17 A Well, no. I felt that way --I would've felt that way if I was on the grounds in 
18 D.C. on the 6th. I still think that people should've came to Washington, D.C., on the 6th 
19 to promote their values, what they believe in, even though I --like, if I disagree with them 
20 about the election being stolen, I still want to have an ear to them. 
21 
22 Q 
A Right. 
I still think that they should've gone to D.C. But I think that, like, who 
23 benefits from going in the Capitol? What did it accomplish, you know? 
24 
25 Q Yeah. Yeah, I know. 
A It didn't stop the certification of the election. It delayed it by a couple  176 
1 hours, with violence, right? So whatever happens still happens. So, like, who 
2 benefited from it? Nobody did. Nobody benefited from that. I wish it never 
3 happened. 
4 Q Was it your understanding that maybe the Proud Boys you might've talked 
5 to, or others, that they marched to the Capitol and then breached it to stop the 
6 certification of the vote? 
7 A I don't believe that. I think that they --my honest opinion here is that they 
8 got caught up in the moment, you know? They got caught up in the moment. A big 
9 group of people running in one way --and I'm not a scientist on crowds, you know? I'm 
10 not a researcher of crowds. But, you know, a lot of people going in, you know, you're 
11 like, "Okay, well, I could go in too." 
12 
13 
14 Q Got it. 
So can we --
A I can't tell you what was going through their heads, but I wish I was there. 
15 really --1 really do. 
16 Mr. Hull. Let him ask a question. 
17 B~: 
18 Q I guess, with the whole getting-caught-up-in-the-moment thing --can you 
19 pull up exhibit 33,_? 
20 So this is --it's all over, right? --the picture of Mr. Biggs, and it's with 
21 Mr. Ryan Samsel. 
22 Did you know Mr. Ryan Samsel? 
23 
24 A 
Q No. 
Do you know if --was it your understanding that Mr. Biggs had known 
25 Mr. Ryan Samsel?  1 
2 
3 A 
Q 
A 177 
I'm pretty sure he didn't. 
Did you talk to Mr. Biggs afterwards about this guy, Mr. Samsel? 
I didn't get a chance to talk to him after. But the reason why I tell you why 
4 I think that Biggs didn't know Mr. Samsel is, when I go to events, I have people, like, come 
5 up to me and, like, take pictures with me, and they don't even know me. And they'll tell 
6 me --they'll try to pitch me on something or a sales pitch. 
7 I just don't think --I can't speak for Biggs, but I'm almost --knowing Biggs and the 
8 implication that this picture, like, you just showing me this picture, means, I know that 
9 Biggs wouldn't be a person to be, like --to be involved in that. 
10 Q Okay. Are you aware or are you now aware that, minutes after this picture 
11 was taken, Mr. Samsel was one of the first folks to push through the Capitol gate on the 
12 west plaza lawn? 
13 
14 
15 A After doing my research, yes, I did know that. 
Q What was your reaction to that, to knowing that fact? 
A I could tell you, like, I know my friend Biggs, and I know that that was 
16 never --I can't speak for him, obviously, but, you know, you're asking me to give an 
17 opinion on somebody else, but I don't think that Biggs would tell him to do anything. 
18 
19 Q Gotcha. 
Mr. Hull. I think DOJ has made it pretty clear they feel the same way, or they 
20 would've mentioned it in connection with Biggs' detention, and they have not. 
21 Got it. Okay. 
22 So can we go through --can you pull up exhibit 34, please,_? 
23 Mr. Hull. When did you find out about Samsel, or the --when did you find out 
24 about that? 
25 The Witness. I just saw it. Like, you know, I'm always --I found out about it, I  1 think, because of you. 
2 
3 
4 
5 Mr. Hull. Because of--say that. 
BY 
Q Do you know this individual? 
A The only reason that I know this individual is because somebody told me 
6 who he was and --he's Pepe, right? 
7 
8 Q Yep, yep. Mr. William Pepe. 
A Yeah. The only reason I --I don't know him. I don't think I've ever met 178 
9 him before. But the only reason that I know his face is really because of that, because 
10 people --like, he came up, and his indictment and stuff like that, this is a picture. 
11 researched a whole bunch of stuff on the Capitol, so --
12 Q Sounds good. That makes sense. 
13 How about---, can we pull up exhibit 29? 
14 Mr. Hull. I think I know what this is going to be. 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 This guy screwed it up for a lot of people. All right. Shut up. 
The Witness. All right. Now I know --
[Discussion off the record.] 
Did you guess it right, Mr. Hull? 
Mr. Hull. I did. 
The Witness. After you said it. 
Q Do you know this individual, Mr. Tarrio? 
A So I met him --I met him in --on the November rally, I believe, and I 
24 saw --he took a picture with me in the December rally. I didn't know who this individual 
25 was. I remember people talking about the name "Pezzola." And, you know, he broke a  179 
1 window, dude, and he --
2 Q I guess, what was your initial reaction to hearing that, you know, a member 
3 of the Proud Boys had broken a window to get into the Capitol? 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 Boy? 
13 
14 
15 A 
Q 
A It fucking hit me. Sorry. Sorry. 
No, it's fine. 
It hit me. And for --
Mr. Hull. I have an objection. 
The Witness. Well, hold on. 
Mr. Hull. I don't mean to interrupt, but can we establish he's a Proud Boy? 
The Witness. That's --
Well, I'll ask you. Were you aware that Mr. Pezzola was a Proud 
The Witness. So --do you want me to answer that? 
Mr. Hull. Yes. 
The Witness. Okay. 
16 So, after that, I went on, like, me trying to --and it's really hard to connect with, 
17 like, some of these chapters, because, again, anybody could pretty much create a 
18 chapter. We try to mitigate that as much as possible. 
19 So I tried to contact my entire --like, everybody that I knew in New York. They're 
20 like: We have no idea who this is. We have no idea who this is. We have no idea 
21 who this is. And I'm like, could he be --you know, the conspiracy theories. Could this 
22 guy be FBI? Could he be an infiltrator? 
23 And I didn't get an answer until about, like, April, right? And he's 
24 like --somebody's like, oh, yeah, he's some dude that just came by in November to a bar 
25 meet, and then at the end of December he went to another meet, and we didn't officially  180 
1 give him his first degree or whatever. 
2 And I'm like, then how the hell did that guy get to D.C.? How did he catch wind 
3 of going to D.C.? 
4 And he has --I think it was December 12th, I shared a picture of him, not knowing 
5 who he was. I just thought it was a really cool picture. It was him, and it looked like 
6 there was fire in the background. And I thought it was a really cool picture, and I posted 
7 it. 
8 Mr. Hull. This guy is your fault. 
9 The Witness. And --yeah. 
10 But I can't tell you there's a chapter that goes ahead and says, "Hey, yeah, this is 
11 my guy." So it's hard for me to even tell you --
12 
13 Mr. Hull. Why don't you just say that? 
The Witness. --he's a Proud Boy that people --I can't tell you he is or isn't a 
14 Proud Boy, but he's a Proud Boy that people know. And, you know, he came in a car 
15 with, I believe, from what I read, he came in a car with Pepe from New York. 
16 B~: 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 Q Uh-huh. And a Mr. Matthew Greene as well, right? 
A Huh? 
Q And a Mr. Matthew Greene as well, right? 
A I guess. I don't know. I know that there was a third person in the car. 
But it was stupid to break that window. And it's hard to --it's hard to --like, me, 
22 as a person, like, if anybody can become a Proud Boy, like, anybody can do anything and 
23 just put it under our name. 
24 Now, I'm not going to say that there wasn't Proud Boys. I'm not going to be 
25 stupid and say, hey, there's no Proud Boys that went into the Capitol. I'm not going to  181 
1 say that. But when it comes to Pezzola, Pezzola just showed up to, like, the D.C. rallies, 
2 went to a bar meet one time, and then showed up in D.C. and was one of the people that 
3 initially broke into the Capitol. 
4 
5 
6 Mr. Hull. Do you know that? 
B~ 
Q So what I'm hearing, I guess, at this time, on January 6th, in your role 
7 as --we can debate whether it was the official or unofficial leader of the Proud Boys, you 
8 did not agree with Mr. Pezzola's actions on January 6th? 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
14 world this. I can tell you I don't agree with those actions, yes. 
And you weren't --
Not just --go ahead. 
No, keep going. Sorry. 
I said, and I'm not just telling you this. I've told --you know, I've told the 
15 
16 
17 Mr. Hull. I'm sorry. You had asked a question, 
Q 
18 Proud Boy? 
19 
20 A 
Q BY 
Yeah. You weren't aware before this that Mr. Pezzola was a second-degree 
No. 
Okay. Would it surprise that you he was a second-degree Proud Boy in the 
21 New York --is there a New York chapter, by the way? 
22 A Oh, it doesn't --it doesn't --it doesn't surprise me, like, if he's a Proud Boy or 
23 not, because I have no --like, it's impossible for me to know every single Proud Boy. But 
24 then, looking after that, like, you're not --like I told you, I'm trying to lower the volume on 
25 things. That's not lowering the volume.  182 
1 Q So, in your opinion, though, I guess from a Proud Boys organization, you 
2 would consider this as an independent act, not something that, like, Proud Boys 
3 condoned on January 6th? 
A I would --I would say so, yes. 
Q Okay. 
We can take that exhibit down, -
Q Who was in charge of the New York chapter of Proud Boys? 4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 A There's, like, seven of them. There's seven or more of them, because now 
10 there's a whole bunch in New York City. 
11 Mr. Hull. They're all over --
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 The Witness. I only know them by their Telegram names. 
BY 
Q Can you give us the ones you know by their Telegram names? 
A Punisher PB176 is one. I can't remember any of the other ones right now. 
Q Okay. 
17 And did you talk to any of the New York Proud Boys prior to January 6th, that you 
18 remember, that you recall? 
19 A That I recall, no. And it wouldn't be about --it probably wouldn't have 
20 been about events --about the January 6th event. 
21 
22 Q What would it have been about? 
Mr. Hull. Just for the record, when you say "New York Proud Boys," do you mean 
23 New York City or New York upstate? I mean --
24 
25 Q BY 
I guess, help us understand. How many different chapters are there up in  1 New York? 
2 
3 
4 A There's a crap-ton. 
Q Can you tell us the different chapters that you're aware of? 
A Like, I think each borough has a chapter, and then there's, like, upstate, 
5 Albany. That's as far as I know. I'm geographically challenged. 
6 Q Do you recall any of these New York Proud Boys being in the Ministry of 
7 Self-Defense? 
A Not that I remember, no. 
Q Okay. 
Can we pull up exhibit 23, please,_? 
Mr. Hull. You okay? 
The Witness. Yeah. Just tired already. 
Sorry about that. I know we're all getting tired, Mr. Tarrio. 
The Witness. Yeah. 
Mr. Hull. Yeah, apparently I'm passing out. 
The Witness. I haven't slept last night. 
Mr. Hull. Who's that? 
Do you know who this person is, Mr. Tarrio? 
The Witness. No. 
Okay. You don't know Ms. Felicia Konold? 
The Witness. No. 
~ Okay. 
Can we pull up exhibit 20,_? 
Do you know this individual, Mr. Colon? 183 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 The Witness. The face is familiar, but, I mean, he has a beanie and a beard, so it  184 
1 covers a lot of his face. 
Mr. Hull. What were you saying, about a beard thing? 
That's correct. 
The Witness. Is what? 
Mr. Hull. These are Kansas City --
The Witness. Oh, I thought that was a joke. 
Mr. Hull. No, no, no. It was never --hard to believe. No. 
B~ 2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 Q Okay. Did you know any of the Kansas City Proud Boys from that chapter? 
10 
11 
12 A No. I can't --I wouldn't be able to pinpoint a single one. 
Q So you don't recall Mr. William Chrestman? 
A The only reason that I recall William Chrestman is because after January 6th 
13 there was a picture, and I thought --I seriously, for a quick second, I thought 
14 Gavin Mcinnes had joined these guys in D.C. 
15 
16 
17 Q Okay. Okay. 
A So, if I know him, it's just because of the pictures. 
Q What about a Mr. Christopher Kuehne? And I'm just going to go through 
18 each name and make sure. 
19 
20 A Okay. 
Q These are Proud Boys from the Kansas City chapter. So Mr. Christopher 
21 Kuehne? And that's K-u-e-h-n-e. 
22 
23 
24 
25 A No. No. 
Q We already went over Ms. Felicia Konold. What about Mr. Cory Konold? 
A No. 
Q Okay. Are you aware of these Kansas City chapter members going in the  185 
1 Capitol on January 6th? 
From news reports. 2 
3 A 
Q And, I guess, again, would you --and similar question that I asked --would 
4 you consider this, like, an independent act of that group or something that was condoned 
5 by the Proud Boys as an organization? 
6 Mr. Hull. Objection. Just, could you establish what you mean by --what was 
7 being condoned? 
8 I guess, did you agree, on behalf of the Proud Boys or the 
9 organization or the leader of the Proud Boys, with these individuals from Kansas City 
10 going into the Capitol on January 6th? 
11 Mr. Hull. Just going into the Capitol. 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 The Witness. Wait. So wait. Am I answering just in the Capitol? 
Mr. Hull. No. You're answering --you answer his question the way -­
The Witness. Look --
Mr. Hull. Don't listen to me. 
The Witness. --just in general, if there was any violence committed, I can tell 
17 you that I don't condone it. 
18 
19 
20 wrong. 
21 Not even violence. Going in the Capitol, though. 
The Witness. Well, also, trespassing into the Capitol also. I think that that's 
But I don't think --so maybe you guys know more than me about this. I don't 
22 think any of those K.C. guys were part of this group that was with Rufio and Ethan and 
23 Biggs. Am I correct in that? 
24 Mr. Hull. Actually, they were, but they were separate --they had armbands and 
25 were doing different things.  1 
2 The Witness. Oh. Well -­
Mr. Hull. I'm not --
3 The Witness. --if they met together at some point and they're like, "Hey, are 186 
4 you Proud Boys?" "Hey, are you Proud Boys?" --because I think that's what I saw with 
5 some of the videos. Like, some people that were outside of the knowledge of meeting 
6 at the Washington Monument, I think these people were walking and they're like, "Hey, 
7 you're Proud Boys? We're Proud Boys too," and they kind of, like, got together at that 
8 point. 
9 Mr. Hull. I'll just throw out here --and I'm sure you've already seen this in the 
10 [inaudible], and it does support theories that I made for a couple of clients, this one and 
11 Biggs. 
12 But the conversation or testimony that Enrique gave about "we're gonna go back 
13 to the Ellipse" --"we're gonna go back to the Ellipse" came out of the mouth of Nordean 
14 and also Biggs, and you can hear it on tape. They were about to go back to the Ellipse. 
15 They'd come up the hill, down the hill, and were eating lunch. And there was a 
16 magic moment --I don't know what was said --where Billy Chrestman, with his axe 
17 handle, walks over to Nordean and says something. 
18 And then they all turn and face the hill, and we can see people behind 
19 them --nobody in uniform or a militia garb or anything --proceeding up the hill. I mean, 
20 they're not, you know, Three Percenters and Oath Keepers, Proud Boys, anybody. 
21 They're walking up the hill. 
22 And the Proud Boys group, about half of it at least, turn toward P Circle, the 
23 roundabout, rather than, you know, facing west, faced east. They faced, you know, left 
24 rather than right and, like, walked over to the edge. 
25 And then there's the --that's where you get the photograph about, maybe, 10,  187 
1 15 minutes later with Ryan Samsel and Joe Biggs. 
2 Okay. 
3 Mr. Tarrio, is that your understanding of how the events happened on the 
4 morning and afternoon of --
5 The Witness. I agree --I agree with Dan. Me and Dan talk a lot about my key 
6 events of that day. So, yeah, I agree with that assessment. 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 Okay. 
I guess we mentioned the names. 
Let's just pull up exhibit 35,-. 
The Witness. Okay. 
BY 
Q Okay. I think I know, but who are these individuals in this picture? 
A Ethan and Zach. 
Q And were these --they were in the Ministry of Self-Defense? Is that 
15 correct? 
16 
17 A 
Q I believe so, yes. Yeah, because --
1 know you mentioned Mr. Nordean. Did you talk to Mr. Rehl on the 
18 morning of January 6th? 
19 
20 
21 A No. 
Q What was your relationship like with Mr. Rehl? 
A We were --we're friends. I don't have, like, his phone number, like, saved 
22 on my phone, but when I've gone to Philly a couple of times for some events where I was 
23 speaking at, he's been very super-cool with me. 
24 
25 Q Gotcha. 
And then Mr. Nordean, what chapter is he from?  188 
A Seattle. 1 
2 Q Seattle. Were any of these folks, like Mr. Rehl and Mr. Nordean, were they 
3 elders or anything like that? 
4 
5 A I think for the first year Ethan was. 
Q Okay. And you're aware that both of these individuals entered the Capitol 
6 on January 6th? 
7 
8 A Yes, I'm aware of it. 
Q And I'm presuming here, but you said earlier --you mentioned best friends 
9 who had entered the Capitol. Who were you talking about when you mentioned best 
10 friends who had entered the Capitol? 
11 
12 
13 A My two best friends are Biggs and Nordean. 
Q Gotcha. And so Mr. Nordean --
A Like, we did the show together. We did our podcast together. We'd hang 
14 out together. 
15 Q So, I guess, what's your feelings on Mr. Nordean, who's one of your close 
16 friends, best friends, going in the Capitol? Just explain that for us. 
17 A I think he made a mistake. I think he made a mistake. And I 
18 think --again, I think that mob mentality took over people that day. And I think 
19 that --my personal opinion? I don't think that he should be still in jail without bond. 
20 don't think so. I --
21 
22 
23 
24 Mr. Hull. You've answered the question. 
The Witness. Yeah. 
BY 
Q I guess how I understand --so, like, I hear your sentiment. But you would 
25 agree that Mr. Nordean and Mr. Rehl were one of the first individuals to break through  189 
1 the gate on the west side of the Capitol, correct? 
I'm not going to agree with that sentiment. 2 
3 A 
Q So, then, what --I guess, give me your interpretation of how they made their 
4 way to the Capitol, then. 
5 A I mean, listen, I'm --you're probably a lot more knowledgeable than me 
6 when it comes to these things. But to say that they're --I mean, how many times are we 
7 gonna say that these people were the first to enter the Capitol? You know, when does 
8 that line stop? Does it stop after the first hour? I don't know. So I can't really give 
9 you an opinion on Nordean based on, like, you saying, you know, he's one of the first 
10 ones to enter. I'm just not gonna --like, I can't answer that. 
11 Q Well, Mr. Nordean, Mr. Rehl, Mr. Biggs, they were with Mr. Samsel. 
12 showed you the picture. Is that correct? Is that your understanding? 
13 
14 A 
Q I saw the pictures, yeah. 
And Samsel was literally the first person to break through the fence. Is that 
15 correct as well? 
16 A The reason why I'm not gonna answer you, like, I'm not gonna answer you 
17 on that question, on a yes or no, is because you're trying to make a connection, and you 
18 haven't shown me --like, what was it that they told each other? Because, to me, it was 
19 Ryan Samsel who was like, "Hey, I saw you on lnfoWars." 
20 Mr. Hull. Well, and I think the film will speak to this- There's three 
21 gentlemen there that he knows pretty well in that picture, and all of them did trespass, all 
22 of them did go into the Capitol, but they traversed a barrier that had been already 
23 traversed, and they all went in. They didn't beat on anybody. In fact, they were kind 
24 of mild. They didn't go in right away. 
25 The Witness. As a matter of fact, I don't know --and, again, you've probably  190 
1 researched this a lot more than me. Have you seen the video of Ethan pulling people 
2 that were beating cops away from the cops? Where he physically removed somebody 
3 that was beating on a cop with a flagpole. 
4 
5 
6 Mr. Hull. Twice. 
BY 
Q So I do have a question for you. I know you got your phone back at 
7 1 o'clock this timeframe, eastern time. Do you remember Mr. Rehl sending out a text at 
8 2:29 that "civil war has started"? 
9 
10 A 
Q Sending what? 
Do you remember a text from Mr. Rehl at 2:29 p.m. saying "civil war has 
11 started"? 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 ever --
18 A 
Q 
A 
Q Like, a text to me? 
I'm asking you, do you recall a text --
1 don't recall --
--that you got of Mr. Rehl saying "civil war has started"? 
Mr. Hull. Excuse me. Are you asking if he ever heard of a text like that, or if he 
No. I'm asking if Mr. Tarrio read, in one way or another, a text 
19 from Mr. Rehl at 2:29 p.m. on January 6th that said civil war started? 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 The Witness. I don't remember getting a text of that nature, no. No. 
Q 
A 
Q Are you denying that you didn't receive a text like that? 
I answered the question. I said I don't recall getting that text message. 
Not recalling is different than denying, so I'm going to ask again. Are you 
25 denying that you received a text from Mr. Rehl -- 1 
2 
3 
4 A I don't know if you want me to repeat myself for the third time --
Mr. Hull. I think you've answered the question. 
B~: 
Q Okay. 191 
5 And, again, kind of like those other questions earlier, do you disagree with 
6 Mr. Rehl and Mr. Nordean entering the Capitol on January 6th? 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 A I think that they shouldn't have trespassed. Yeah. Fine. 
Thank you,-. You can take this exhibit down. 
And the last one, can we put up exhibit 26? 
Thanks for bearing with me, Mr. Tarrio. This will be the last one we put up. 
Mr. Hull. Really? 
I might change my mind, Mr. Hull. 
Mr. Hull. I think I get --I think I'm going to guess on which one this is. 
The Witness. I'm literally falling asleep. 
Mr. Hull. Don't do that yet. We'll --
The Witness. No, I'm not --
Mr. Hull. Agh! Actually it was my second, but --
BY 
Q So, again, I'll ask the same question. What were your thoughts on 
20 Mr. Biggs going into the Capitol on January 6th? 
21 A I'm gonna tell that you I feel the same way. I mean, they walked in; they 
22 shouldn't have. And they know how I feel, you know? They shouldn't have gone in. 
23 And I wish I was there to stop them from going in. 
24 
25 Mr. Hull. They feel that way too, you know? So -­
BY  192 
1 Q So we are aware that Mr. Biggs entered the Capitol and left the Capitol and 
2 then went back in the Capitol again on the east side. Did he talk to you about that at 
3 all? 
4 A I remember I did --I vaguely remember having a --texting Biggs probably 
5 around, like, 4:30, around there, "Are you okay?" And I didn't get an answer till later. 
6 And after he told me that he's okay, I assumed that, like, by him saying, "I'm 
7 okay," it meant that he didn't go into the Capitol. And after that, I just --1 didn't want to 
8 ask. I didn't want to ask. 
9 And the truth is, like, I did find out after, you know, he got arrested that he walked 
10 in and out of the Capitol. 
11 Q And were you tracking --and we've gone through a lot of individuals here, 
12 including some of your best friends here, so I'll just ask: Are you aware of any of them 
13 talking to any Oath Keepers at the Capitol on January 6th? 
14 
15 A 
Q No. I don't --I'm not aware of it. 
Do you consider it coincidental, then, that, you know, the Oath Keepers 
16 went into the east side of the Capitol at approximately 2:36 p.m. and then Mr. Biggs 
17 entered the same side of the Capitol at approximately 2:38 p.m.? What's your thoughts 
18 about that fact? 
19 Mr. Hull. I'm going to object to the form of the question. Incredibly 
20 speculative, with all the people that were around. You could say there were a lot 
21 of --you know, hundreds of people. 
22 
23 The Witness. That's what I was --
The objection's been noted. I'm going to ask the witness to still 
24 please answer the question. 
25 Mr. Hull. Well, you know -- 1 
2 
3 The Witness. I'll go with my attorney on this. 
Mr. Hull. No. Answer the question. 
It's an objection, though. It's on the record. You can still 
4 answer the question. 
5 Mr. Hull. With the objection on the record, and as long as you understand. 
6 The Witness. So, I mean, the way that you worded that question, I mean, 193 
7 anybody that went into the Capitol within that timeframe can be accused of working with 
8 the Oath Keepers. 
9 Like, we don't have a history of working with the Oath Keepers. As a matter of 
10 fact, I think one of the people that would really not work with Oath Keepers, besides me, 
11 is Biggs. 
12 
13 ~ Why is that? 
The Witness. Because Biggs was even more pissed off than I was on that day in 
14 Portland. 
15 Okay. 
16 The Witness. Because we were the last ones to stay there when we were trying 
17 to Uber 300 people out of there. 
18 •lll!ll!l!l!l!lll Got it. 
19 
20 Mr. Hull. I'd also tell you he finds them embarrassing. So, I mean -­
~ You'd agree with that, Mr. Tarrio, that Mr. Biggs finds them 
21 embarrassing? 
22 
23 The Witness. The what? 
Mr. Hull. Oath Keepers. 
24 Would you agree that Mr. Biggs finds the Oath Keepers 
25 embarrassing?  1 
2 
3 
4 The Witness. I would agree with that sentiment. 
Mr. Hull. Super-ridiculous. 
The Witness. We don't take the Oaths too --that seriously. 
We can take this down-. Thank you. 194 
5 So does anyone have any --any staff have any followup questions for that, before 
6 I get to after January 6th? 
7 ? 
8 Thank you. 
9 BY 
10 Q Mr. Tarrio, I just wanted to follow up on the Oath Keepers thing and ask 
11 about one or two other groups who I don't think we've talked about yet. 
12 One is Nick Fuentes and his America First or Groypers group. Are you familiar 
13 with Nick Fuentes? 
14 
15 
16 A 
Q 
A Yes. 
What's your relationship with him? 
We'll say hi to each other at an event. That's about it. I don't --we've 
17 never really had a --held a conversation with him. 
18 Q Got it. So, when you've appeared at events together, it's just kind of an 
19 acquaintance relationship? 
20 A Yeah, and I wouldn't even say that much. Like, we'll probably say hi to each 
21 other, but me and him have conflicting views. And I respect his views; he can have his 
22 views. They're just not my cup of tea. 
23 
24 
25 him. Q 
A What do you mean by that? 
He just --he has views on what America should be, and I don't agree with  195 
Q Got it. 1 
2 The other group I wanted to ask about was 1st Amendment Praetorian and Robert 
3 Patrick Lewis. Are you familiar with --
4 A Okay, so I've heard of it. And I think one time I got a request from 
5 somebody that's one of those Praetorian dudes that has, like, a podcast or whatever and 
6 asked me to get on the show. But, other than that, I know nothing about them. Like, I 
7 don't know what their logo is, I don't know how they dress, what they're about. I don't 
8 know. 
9 
10 Q Were you aware that they were there on January 5th and 6th? 
A I mean, you didn't have to tell me that. I'm pretty sure, if they're one of 
11 those groups, then, yeah. I'd say, like, everybody that I've met over the years was there 
12 January 6th. 
13 
14 Q Got it. So you didn't have a relationship with 1st Amendment Praetorian? 
A No. The only thing I told you is, like, I think I had a conversation with one 
15 because they wanted to have me on a podcast one time, but I don't --I didn't even do it. 
16 Q Got it. 
17 And do you know of any Proud Boys who were corresponding with Robert Patrick 
18 Lewis or the 1st Amendment Praetorians? 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 A I don't know who that is, and I'm --I have no idea. 
Q Okay. 
Q So, after, you know, January 6th, when did you go back home? When did 
24 you leave Baltimore? 
25 A I think, like, 2 days later, 3 days later.  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 or --Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A How did you --you went back to south Florida, I'm assuming? 
Yeah. 
How did you get there? Like, fly? Did you fly --
We drove. 
Did you drive with anyone? Did you go -­
Yeah. 
--with any of the Proud Boys? Who'd you go with? 
I drove with Amy Harris. 
I guess, explain to us how that came about. Did she rent the car for you, 196 
I think she had a car rental, and she just extended it to go to south Florida. 
12 So she did --we basically did, like, an interview at that point. 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 Q Okay. So part of the drive back was an interview? 
A [Nonverbal response.] 
Q Got it. Yes? That's a yes? 
A Yes. Yes. That's a yes. 
Q Okay. Did she pay for the car rental? 
A I'm pretty sure that she did, yeah. 
Q Okay. Was that normal, for her to pay for something like that with you 
20 when doing an interview with you? 
21 A Well, she's not --I mean, she's not paying for my car. She's paying for her 
22 car. And she wanted to --she wanted to sit down and interview me after that. So, 
23 like --
24 Mr. Hull. And they're friends. 
25 The Witness. So we --like, I don't get the nature of the question, whether she,  197 
1 like --
2 BY 
3 Q Oh, that's okay. I think Mr. Hull just helped. He said that you all are 
4 friends. Is that a fair characterization? 
5 A I wouldn't characterize --it's always a professional capacity. She's always 
6 asking me questions on what am I going to do next or things like that. It's always 
7 on --recorded. So I don't know how much of, like, friends, like, just sit with a camera in 
8 front of you the whole time. 
9 
10 Mr. Hull. She likes you. 
11 Q Were you all romantically --thank you, Mr. Hull. Were you all ever 
12 romantically involved? Mr. Hull is --
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 A No, absolutely not. 
Q You're not? 
A No. 
Mr. Hull. He just kicked me. All right. 
BY 
Q So you already had your communications device on January 6th at 1:00 p.m. 
19 I guess, afterwards, describe to us, on January 7th moving forward, any conversations you 
20 might've had with Mr. Biggs or Mr. Rehl or Mr. Nordean. 
21 
22 A 
Q Now, what? I'm sorry. Say that again. 
I guess, what communications or conversations did you have with Mr. Rehl 
23 or Biggs or Nordean after January 6th? 
24 
25 Mr. Hull. Anything? Or everything? What -­
BY  198 
Q Yes. About January 6th. Did you talk to them about January 6th? 
A I mean, yeah, of course. 
Q What was the nature of those conversations? 1 
2 
3 
4 A One thing I didn't want to do is I didn't want to ask --I really didn't want to 
5 ask, you know, what happened, you know? Just feelings on January 6th was really 
6 where it's at. 
7 
8 Q And what feelings did they express to you about January 6th? 
A I mean, I think inside they had the same feeling that I did, where they're like, 
9 bro, this is a setback. I mean, this is not good. 
10 Q Do you think the actions of some of the Proud Boys members on January 6th 
11 was a setback for the Proud Boys organization? 
12 
13 
14 A Yeah. I'd say yeah. 
Q Can you help us understand why? 
A I just think that, like, if that wouldn't have happened, if they wouldn't have 
15 gone in, like, we wouldn't have the issues that we're having today. 
16 
17 Q 
A Did you end up interviewing with the FBI or DOJ after January 6th? 
No. I think the only time that I had a meeting with the FBI was a day before 
18 I got out of jail, and it was because they were asking me about, like, a posting --the posts 
19 on my channel. And it was a Bible quote or whatever. So that's the only reason why 
20 they interviewed me. 
21 
22 
23 
24 Q Okay. So post-January 6th you have not talked to the FBI or DOJ? 
A No. 
Q Okay. 
I believe that's all the questions I have. I believe 
25 has some more questions for you. Thank you, Mr. Tarrio.  1 
2 
3 BY 
Q Mr. Tarrio, you just mentioned that --
The Witness. Okay. I'm sorry. I'll be honest with you. I'm getting, like, 
4 super-exhausted. 
5 We're almost there. We're almost there. 
Mr. Hull. Well, just, you know -­
BY 199 
6 
7 
8 Q Mr. Tarrio, you said that there were issues that the Proud Boys experienced 
9 as a result of January 6th. Can you be more specific? 
10 A Just, I mean, like, we're usually a very happy bunch. Just, like, focus is on 
11 hanging out, drinking with the boys. And, like, I feel like it's put a cloud over all of that, 
12 you know, like we're Debbie Downers now. 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 Q Yeah, I imagine that must be difficult. 
So what happened to the group after January 6th? 
Mr. Hull. Objection to form. What do you mean by "group," 
BY 
Q Well, you know, have you had people leave the Proud Boys? Have you had 
18 trouble getting new people to join the Proud Boys? 
19 A Oh. Well, one thing that we did is, I suggested to most of these chapters 
20 that I'm friends with to stop recruiting altogether and just focus on, like, their local 
21 chapters internally. And I think that, you know, a lot of them are taking that advice. 
22 But, you know, I don't think --I don't think too many chapters are focused on 
23 getting new people. I think most chapters are focused on just hanging with the boys 
24 and drinking. 
25 Q Yeah. So what would, you know, stopping recruitment do? Is it just  200 
1 meant to keep the groups tight like you said? 
What? I'm sorry? 
I guess I'm trying to understand why you --2 
3 
4 A 
Q 
A 1 just --I don't want people --I don't want --we've already had some rough 
5 times even before January 6th with people that didn't know who we were, and they just 
6 wanted to join us because they saw us on TV or whatever, and we had some problems 
7 with that. 
8 And then, I think, just moving forward, like, if you want to --I don't want to focus 
9 on trying to get new people; I want to focus on the people that we have. And I'm 
10 speaking from, like, my personal chapter and from what I've seen also with other 
11 chapters. Like, that's the primary focus. 
12 Mr. Hull. Yeah. And I think his testimony earlier was that, you know, he 
13 doesn't, you know, determine what each Proud Boy does, or each Proud Boy group. It's 
14 kind of --what do you call it --decentralized. It's more like a consortium or something. 
15 But, you know, I think one of the things he's learned from this is, this is not like 
16 they're a uniform, tightly controlled, regulated organization. And it's new and has a lot 
17 of problems. 
18 BY 
19 Q So I guess what I'm getting at with that is, you know, you mentioned earlier 
20 that seven guys in Kansas can start a chapter. Has that been a problem? And how 
21 does that fit into, you know, what happened --
22 
23 
24 A 
Q 
A I mean, it wasn't a problem -­
--on January 6th? 
I'm sorry. It wasn't a problem in the beginning, and then it started 
25 becoming a problem later. But I think that we kind of, like --we kind of grew out of that  201 
1 problem. And then I just didn't want to have that problem again after --right before, 
2 like, the election, stuff like that. So, like, in my case, I stopped recruiting in my personal 
3 chapter after that. 
4 
5 Q Got it. 
And has it been hard personally for you to be --I know you're not currently 
6 chairman, but you were for the last, you know, little while. Has January 6th caused 
7 problems for you? 
8 A Yeah, it has, a bit. I mean, running PR for a bunch of drunks is 
9 difficult --decentralized drunks is difficult as it is, you know? And that's one of the 
10 reasons I stepped down. I just needed a break. 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 Q Yeah. 
Which is your personal chapter, by the way? 
A It's called the Villain City Chapter, down in south Florida. 
Q Got it. And since you've stepped down, are you still a member of that? 
A Yeah. 
Q I'm curious what you think of, you know, January 6th in a broader context. 
17 Like, do you think President Trump was responsible in some way, or other politicians? 
18 
19 A Just based on, like, my personal views on things, I think --
Mr. Hull. Excuse me. Just a clarification. You're asking him does he have a 
20 theory of how it happened? 
21 I'm asking for his opinion. 
22 The Witness. I mean, my opinion is simple. I think everybody is independent, 
23 you know? I don't blame Trump for what happened. I blame the individual. 
24 
25 Q Got it. And so do you still support President Trump?  A 
Q I mean, over Biden? Hell yeah. 
Got it. 202 
1 
2 
3 You know, where do the Proud Boys go from here? You know, you mentioned 
4 that you just kind of want to focus on the friendship bonds, right? 
5 A Yeah. And that's basically what it is. I think we're going to focus, like, just 
6 on ourselves and just --we have a lot of events that are not political, you know? We 
7 go to Vegas. We go to the beaches of Florida. We go to New York and we rent a boat 
8 and we party, you know, like fraternities do. And that's --99 percent of the stuff that 
9 we do is that. 
10 But I think that's what we're going to focus on. We're just going to focus 
11 internally. I don't think that --I don't think you'll see them or me in D.C., unless we have 
12 to come to D.C., any time soon. 
13 
14 Q 
A So is politics not going to be a part of the Proud Boys going forward? 
I mean, I don't think --it's not going to be a main part of the Proud Boys 
15 going forward. But I think that it'll always be with us. Like, we're political individuals. 
16 But I think we've figured out that we can change more things from, like, hanging out 
17 together and focusing on our families than we can protesting. 
18 Q Got it. And so, I mean, 10 months from now, 9 months from now, there's 
19 going to be another election. Do you see the Proud Boys getting involved with that? 
20 A No. Like, unless some of them are running for office, I don't see them 
21 getting involved much in that. Plus, I think that when the Republicans will flip the House 
22 and the Senate, I think things will smooth over. 
23 Q So why --you know, I think you mentioned that some Proud Boys might run 
24 for office. Is that right? 
25 A [Nonverbal response.]  Q You know, what would motivate them to run for office --
The Reporter. If I could get a clear answer on that last one? 
The Witness. What? 
Mr. Hull. Excuse me? What did he say? Can we hear the question? 
The Reporter. Could you repeat your last answer? You nodded. 203 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 The Witness. Oh, I said --oh. Yeah. Like, I could explain it. That's what he 
7 asked. 
8 So ask the question again. 
9 
10 
11 Q 
A What would motivate a Proud Boy to run for office? 
I mean, there's a lot of us that are activists. And I think the best way to 
12 make changes is by being the change. It's easier to change what you've been preaching 
13 for so long from an elected position. 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 Q 
A Got it. Kind of an inside strategy? 
That's it. 
Mr. Hull. Alternative to axe handles. 
I'm sorry, Mr. Hull? 
The Witness. No. He said --don't worry about it. 
Mr. Hull. Don't worry, yeah. It beats axe handles, so --
20 I just want to turn it over to --
21 Before we move on, I realize that was an aside, but we do need to 
22 make sure that the court reporter heard that. 
23 
24 
25 Mr. Hull. I said --I said it beats axe handles. 
Mr. Court Reporter, are you okay? Do you have that? 
The Reporter. Yes.  1 
2 Thanks. 
I just have a couple more questions. Then I think 
3 had some additional questions. But we're almost there, Mr. Tarrio. 
BY 
Did the Proud Boys ever have a cryptocurrency account? 
Did, like, the Proud Boys? No. 204 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 Q 
A 
Q 
A Do you have cryptocurrency accounts that you use for Proud Boy expenses? 
No. I've actually --I have crypto accounts that have nothing to do with 
9 Proud Boys. And I've never --I don't even know how to pull out money off of it, to be 
10 honest with you. 
11 Q I heard there are crypto ATMs. I think I've seen a Bitcoin ATM. 
12 A 
13 Bitstop. 
14 
15 
16 Q 
A 
Q My friend owns --was the first --he created the Bitcoin ATM. He created 
Huh. That's cool. 
Yep. 
And, you know, are there bank accounts, either run by you or someone else 
17 in the Proud Boys, that are used for Proud Boys expenses? 
18 A No. The thing is, we don't have any expenses. Like, if we're going to go 
19 to, like, Vegas or whatever, like, everybody pays their own way. If you can't pay your 
20 own way, that's it. Like, we don't need money for anything. There's no --and I think 
21 money --in my general opinion, I think, like, in a group like ours, I think money would 
22 corrupt things. It wouldn't be fun. 
23 
24 Q 
A Uh-huh. 
You guys, like --we don't want to suck the fun out of this organization. And 
25 I think, like, having a treasury and dues and all that would just make things way too, like,  1 serious. 
2 
3 Q 
A Got it. So there are no dues? 
A chapter locally can assess dues to their members. But as far as the 
4 organization as a whole, you know, we don't have any dues. 
5 And, especially, going back to the recurring topic of the seven guys in Kansas 205 
6 thing, like, there's no way to control who sends what or any of that. Like, we don't --I 
7 have no executive privilege over the guys, and there's nobody --like, California can't tell 
8 Florida what to do. Florida can't tell New York what to do. That's kind of the basis of 
9 the organization. 
10 
11 Q 
A So, just speaking about your home chapter, were there dues? 
We had some at one point, back in, like, 2018. And it was to pay for a 
12 warehouse where we hosted our meetings, and we bought a fridge together. But after, 
13 like, 7 months, we canceled the lease, and we never established dues anymore. 
14 Q Got it. And stuff like, you know, the black and yellow uniforms, people 
15 would have to buy that themselves? 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 A Yeah. 
Mr. Hull. You mean the polo shirt? 
The Witness. Yeah. 
Mr. Hull. All right. 
I'm sorry. I didn't catch that. 
The Witness. He said the polo shirts, but I said yes. 
Got it. 
I think that's all I have, but I know has a couple more questions. 
- Thankyou, 
And thank you, Mr. Tarrio and Mr. Hull, for bearing with us. I think we're in the  206 
1 home stretch finally. 
2 
3 Q I wanted to just follow up on that last thing that you mentioned, that they 
4 had to buy the polos themselves. Where were they buying those from? Is that from 
5 your 1776 shop or somewhere else? 
6 A I had them for a little while, but they usually buy them off Amazon. But 
7 they're really difficult to keep in stock, and they take, like, 3 months to get here. So I 
8 just stopped selling them. It was next to impossible to get that over. 
9 Q Got it. 
10 And, speaking of your website, I was looking at it earlier as you were describing it, 
11 and I notice that there is a T-shirt on there that says "The Proud Boys did nothing wrong." 
12 And I was wondering if you could tell me about that shirt, when you started selling it, and 
13 what that means. 
14 A I started selling that way before --I forget when I started selling that shirt. 
15 Maybe mid-2020. And it's a line of shirts that I made which are called the "did nothing 
16 wrong" line. And it has a whole bunch of things, like "Tiger King did nothing wrong," 
17 "Donald Trump did nothing wrong." 
18 Mr. Hull. The Japanese guy. 
19 
20 The Witness. "Yamaguchi did nothing wrong." 
So it's just a simple black shirt with white lettering. And it's kind of like, since the 
21 media loves to --the media loves us and loves to, like, villainize us, it's basically, like, an 
22 assertation that we did nothing wrong. 
23 BY 
24 Q Got it. So you weren't referring to anything in particular when you said 
25 "The Proud Boys did nothing wrong"?  A 
Q 
A 
Q No. And -­
Okay. 
--this shirt predates January 6th by a very long time. 
Okay. 207 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 Also on your website you mentioned that you have a memoir coming out. And in 
6 that memoir --
7 
8 A 
Q Yes. 
--or the summary of it, it says that you're going to be talking about a lot of 
9 events up to and including the Capitol. 
10 
11 A 
Q Yes. 
And I just wanted to get a sense of what you plan to speak about in your 
12 book, if it's different from or a different subject matter than what we've talked about 
13 here. 
14 A No, I mean, it's just, like, my 5 years from 2016 from being the canvasser for 
15 Donald Trump all the way up to my arrest --I mean, up to my release. 
16 And then January 6th specifically, it'll have, like, my --I never hide my feelings on 
17 J6. I know my feelings are a little bit more complex to explain than most people, 
18 because a lot of people are just binary. But, you know, I'm going to dedicate about two 
19 to three chapters of the book to January 6th or anything connected to January 6th --like, 
20 the time after, you know, maybe my time here with you guys, things like that. 
21 Q Is there anything about January 6th or the lead-up to or the aftermath that 
22 we haven't asked you about that you want people to know and you want to have on the 
23 record? 
A I guess this is kind of, like, a closing statement? 24 
25 Mr. Hull. No, no, no. Just think about her questions. It's fair, and it's -- 1 
2 The Witness. I --well --
Mr. Hull. You've talked a lot. 208  209 
1 [4:24 p.m.] 
2 The Witness. I just think there's like this huge division in this country and we are 
3 at each other's throats. And you've got to ask --even --even though I'll never say --I'll 
4 never say that it was justified what happened. You know, it was wrong to go in there. 
5 It was wrong to assault police officers. It was wrong to break and steal anything. 
6 But --and I think this is kind of what you guys are doing, but I don't think that you 
7 have this perspective yet. You know, this is a --this is a very professional setting. You 
8 know, you call people in, you subpoena them to come in, but I don't think that you get a 
9 lot of like the real meat and potatoes of it even --it doesn't matter how long you do this. 
10 I just think that people are afraid to talk to you, you know. 
11 Like why --what caused these people to think that it was okay to go into the 
12 Capitol? And the first thing that somebody from the other side would answer to me is 
13 like, well, Donald Trump said the election was stolen. Well, I'd say that that was a 
14 cherry on top. I'd agree with that statement, but I think that there's a whole mountain 
15 under that that people aren't seeing. 
16 And every time that somebody --and not to badmouth the members of the 
17 committee, but every time the committee members demonize Trump supporters even 
18 before January 6th, as many of them have done it, you know. And you go into a country 
19 where there's so many tensions. You get knocked off of social media for saying things. 
20 Your business gets shut down because you're local, State, and Federal government says, 
21 you know, it has to be shut down, while major corporations are making billions of billions 
22 of dollars on a daily basis, and then you see these riots on the streets and then a politician 
23 calls it the summer of love. Like there's a lot that --a lot of tension that happened with 
24 these people that led up to the events of January 6th. 
25 And we need to find a way to unite again and having these conversations, not just  210 
1 at a subpoena level, not just at a congressional level, not just at a --I'm Republican, you're 
2 Democrat level, at a level where --like let's understand each other and at least work on 
3 the things that we agree with. 
4 And I think both sides of the aisle right now just are --they have no idea. They 
5 have no idea what your regular everyday working-class American like goes through to just 
6 get by. And people are pissed, and people are pissed on both sides. And I wish the 
7 Capitol --I wish that the events on January 6th never happened. I wish they didn't. 
8 wish I could take that pain away from people. 
9 BY 
10 
11 Q 
A What's the pain you're referring to? 
Just the anger of --like some of those people I watched --I watched 
12 "Four Hours At the Capitol" on HBO, right. I don't know if you guys have had a chance to 
13 watch. It's very powerful. 
14 Q I did see it. 
15 A You know, and even me being from the other side of the aisle and having my 
16 certain views on it, like it did hit me. You know, it did give me perspective from 
17 other --how other people feel. The Asian woman that like got in tears, you know, I was 
18 in tears. You know, I was in tears because I can't imagine what it feels like to be stuck in 
19 a room and you're like, Oh, crap, you know, I might die today, you know. 
20 So I just think that we need to have these conversations. These conversations 
21 need to be public, and there can't be a political agenda. There can't be a reelection 
22 strategy to it or there can't be a fundraising strategy to it. 
23 Q So at the risk of opening a can of worms that's going to keep us here a little 
24 bit longer, I find what you just said very interesting, because part of what we are trying to 
25 do with this committee, at least at a staff level, is to understand exactly what you said is  211 
1 what led people to the point where they felt they had to do or they felt comfortable 
2 doing what they did on the 6th. 
3 
4 And you might have noticed that 
more general background questions, and earlier asked you some 
asked you much more about 
5 November, December, and January 6th, and that's because that represents that there is a 
6 team here on the committee that is trying to understand the broader picture, and the 
7 broader sense of what motivated people there, or I guess it's the meat and potatoes, as 
8 you called it. 
9 What do you think we should be looking at, or who do you think we should be 
10 talking to to understand that meat-and-potatoes perspective? 
11 A I'll tell you what, my belief is like, in this setting you'll never get --you'll 
12 never get people --like I've talked to people across the country and how they feel about 
13 these things and what they're angry about. So it's not just --I think just going back to 
14 November to now is too little bit. 
15 I think you need to go back to 2016 and move forward, because it wasn't antifa 
16 that went into the Capitol, right. It wasn't --it wasn't the FBI that went into the Capitol. 
17 It was Trump supporters that went into the Capitol, right. And you won't --you won't 
18 get that --with this committee, you know, I --I --1 don't think that you'll get that with this 
19 committee. I think that you'll get a part of the picture, but I think that you're going to 
20 miss almost the entire puzzle when you don't --when you don't, like, understand where 
21 some people are coming from, because these --it's not a minority. 
22 It's not like it's --thankfully that there was only --thankfully there was only --and 
23 I'm not good at counting crowds. Thankfully there was only 100,000 people there, 
24 because imagine every Trump supporter that wanted to be there can fly out there, it 
25 would've been --it would've been a lot bigger, right. And it's a big portion of America  212 
1 that feels this way, and you're not going to --you're not going to brush them under a 
2 carpet. I'm sorry. 
3 Q When you say feel that way, what do you mean? What are they angry 
4 about? 
5 A Like just are unhappy with the government in general, you know. And 
6 that's --although January 6th shone a light on Trump supporters, it's the same thing. 
7 Like the left is saying the same thing. They're not happy with their government, you 
8 know. Although, you know, Republicans and Democrats do have different ways on the 
9 solution, we kind of agree on the problem, but we pretend that we don't agree on the 
10 problem. 
11 I'm willing to --listen, I'll open up. I'm willing to have a sit-down conversation off 
12 the record with any of these members of the committee to tell them how I feel. I don't 
13 want to talk about details. I want to tell them how I feel and the experiences that I've 
14 seen with other people. 
15 But I think I do --I don't --again, I don't have a binary stance on things, and it's 
16 difficult for me to express myself on how I feel sometimes. But if you want to stop this, 
17 like they've got to --we've got to both make concessions. 
18 Mr. Hull. I really appreciate the question. I think it's a good one and the kind of 
19 thing that, you know, we like --you like to hear asked. And people forget that you're 
20 doing this in a fairly --you have enormous power to do this and bring people before you 
21 to answer questions, like maybe no other power. 
22 A lot of the people who went up --I've talked to people who went up the Hill that 
23 day and talking --you don't have to believe this, the people who went up weren't from a 
24 group or anything. They were very frustrated, very unsophisticated, newly politicized 
25 people. And maybe COVID had something to do with that, and maybe the internet has  213 
1 made people more hoisted than they should be. 
2 But Americans just don't know each other anymore. And there's groups of 
3 people who feel like, you know, this change is happening or that change is happening 
4 and, you know, they're kind and they're --they don't want to, like, stop good ideas or 
5 ideas that, you know, sound good, but they want to be consulted and that may be a 
6 different problem than people who stormed the Hill. 
7 But I'm absolutely amazed that very few of the people who went up the Hill that 
8 day and into the Capitol had ever been to the Capitol before. I had --I have one client 
9 who's never been to --and, you know, Capitol Hill means a lot to me. You know, I used 
10 to work there, and I used to eat bean soup there in the cafeteria with my grandfather. 
11 It's an important place. You have people who really didn't quite know what to do, and 
12 they did the wrong thing. 
13 My clients, the kind of people that I knew and are representing in this, they are 
14 people who turned at the wrong time and went up the Hill, followed the people up the 
15 Hill, shouldn't have and they know it. They don't defend it. Once you're on the ground 
16 that day, that day where it's cordoned off on Capitol Hill, which is rarely cordoned off, 
17 you're not in First Amendment land anymore, and you're trespassing on January 6th. 
18 Violence is --I don't know too many people who are violent in this thing. I'm not 
19 representing people who were. But a lot of people really didn't quite, you know, know 
20 what to do except --I don't know if it's Trump --do whatever they did and go up that Hill. 
21 It was amazingly unsophisticated, almost painful to look --to talk to the people 
22 who did do that that day. And I don't know anything about proud mentality, and I don't 
23 know anything about the kind of influences that Trump had on people, but these are 
24 people who are really like walking wounded in America and there's a lot of them. And 
25 with that, I'll just --you know.  1 
2 
3 The Witness. I'll just -­
Mr. Hull. Yeah, go ahead. 
The Witness. I'll just add one more thing on how J6 affected something that I 
4 was trying to do and it killed the project altogether. Back in December I was trying to 214 
5 make a summit in Georgia. I reached out to --I don't know if you guys know who Killer 
6 Mike is? 
7 BY 
8 
9 Q Yes. 
A Okay. So I reached out to Killer Mike. I had done security for him a long 
10 time ago back in '15, and we started talking. We started discussing doing a summit 
11 together, right, and bringing like leadership from a whole bunch of different activist 
12 groups together in a sit-down like roundtable discussion and then have panels. 
13 And I think that --like we had it in the bag. You know, I'm like perfect, we're 
14 going to do it. We're going to do it in Atlanta. And like January 6th happens, and 
15 it --wrecking ball, wrecking ball to that whole idea. And I think that would've been so 
16 great, and it just killed off that idea. And it was --it's --besides my friends being in jail 
17 for January 6th, it kind of stopped me from doing that. 
18 Q Are there other projects that you haven't been able to do? I mean, I think I 
19 had heard somewhere, though I can't recall quite where, about a potential Netflix project. 
20 I don't know if there's anything like that that you had hoped to do that's not on the table 
21 anymore? 
22 A I'm looking to do --I'm looking to consult small groups, to teach them how to 
23 be more effective at a local level through, like, the school board, the city council 
24 meetings, county commissioners, things like that. I just want to help them grow. So 
25 it's a nonprofit that I'm working on now. Also -- 1 
2 Q 
A 215 
What's it called? 
It's called "Heirs of Liberty." And I'm also working on --and I'm actually 
3 working --she's a really good contact to have. Her name is Amy Lopez. She works in 
4 the D.C. jail, and she runs the education program there. And I want to help her with her 
5 education system in there. It's --what I saw in there --I've been to jail before and --I've 
6 been to jail before. I did 10 months. And what I saw in D.C. jail was like, it was insane. 
7 
8 Mr. Hull. Was she in the regular jail? 
The Witness. She does both. She's in both education center at CTF and CDF. 
9 But like I knew the criminal justice system was screwed up, but I didn't know how much it 
10 was screwed up until I was part of that system here in D.C. 
11 BY 
12 Q I can understand that. I think there is --I'm from D.C. originally, and there's 
13 been complaints about the D.C. jail for a long time, so --
14 
15 A 
Q Yeah. 
--I understand that for sure. 
16 With regards to your nonprofit working with school boards, the local 
17 organizations, what kinds of things are you hoping to change at that level? 
18 A Here's the thing, it's not going to be partisan, whatever they want. My 
19 whole thing is how to get them to organize. So if they're --if they're a liberal group, a 
20 Democratic group, I don't --I don't care. Some of my guys are giving me crap about 
21 that. But I want them --I want people to be more effective. 
22 Because one thing, regardless of however you feel about Donald Trump as a 
23 President, there is one thing that he did that is great. Everybody's more involved now. 
24 Everybody knows who their local Congressman is, who their local mayor is. 
25 Everybody --it's an energy I've never seen before. Like I said, when I join --when I got  216 
1 involved, I got involved in, like, local GOP clubs, and there was literally wheelchairs and 
2 oxygen tanks. 
3 
4 
5 Mr. Hull. Yeah. Sorry. 
BY 
Q So I would certainly like to take you up on your offer to talk off the record at 
6 some point about the specifics of what you've heard from other folks. 
7 
8 A 
Q Okay. 
But I do just want to wrap up with, one, you had mentioned earlier that you 
9 had a different perspective than Mr. Fuentes about his vision for America, and I was 
10 wondering if you could just specify what you mean by that. 
11 A You know, not to --again, I respect his views completely, but his views more 
12 on like America should be White is something that I can't --I can't agree with. 
13 just --I'm sorry. It's not my cup of tea, authoritarian --and there is some views that are 
14 a little bit more authoritarian that I'm a little afraid of if it was a politician saying those 
15 things, you know. 
16 We've gone so far from --and I know you guys know for a fact. You know, we've 
17 gone so far from the PATRIOT Act, back in 2004 when we were complaining about the 
18 PATRIOT Act. And one thing that January 6th did do is it expanded the powers of 
19 those --of these agencies to be able to violate our privacy, you know. 
20 And that's not going to be used --here's the thing, I vibe with --I vibe with the 
21 idea that African Americans and minorities are more targeted by police officers. I've 
22 never --I've always said that that's a thing. So these --now with these new tactics and 
23 these new laws and these new legislation, who's --who is going to be the ones that are 
24 going to feel the brunt of all of this, and it's going to be them. 
25 Mr. Hull. What kind of legislation do you mean?  217 
1 The Witness. I'm saying, like if they expand their surveillance powers, right, to 
2 be able to get with --like if they start doing the, oh, this group is domestic terrorists, this 
3 group is domestic terrorists, so now we can surveil them even more, well, that's just 
4 going to go --that's just going to go --it's really going to hit minorities the most. It's not 
5 going to hit anybody else. 
6 BY 
7 Q Well, I think, Mr. Tarrio, you and I have found a place where we agree. As a 
8 civil libertarian, that's always been my concern as well, so I can understand that. 
9 A So --go ahead. 
10 Q You had also mentioned that your local chapter was called the Villain City 
11 chapter. Is that right? 
12 A Yes. 
13 Q Where did that name come from? 
14 A It came from specifically --so that's why with the chairman of all the Proud 
15 Boys, when I say I took it for myself, it was like the bigger majority of the Proud Boys at 
16 that time, you know, we were --we were friends, and we kind of just built that --we kind 
17 of just built that together. But there's always been a contingent of Proud Boys that have 
18 hated my guts, right. They're like, not my chairman. 
19 So through recent --through recent years, like leadership has a shelf life. You 
20 end up pissing off everybody at least once. And I've become their villain. So --and 
21 their numbers --their numbers that dislike me in the organization has grown too. But 
22 the cool part is we still don't like each other but we respect each other, and I think 
23 that's --that's really important. But for the most part, I called it that because they 
24 villainized --
25 Mr. Hull. It's called -- 1 
2 
3 
4 
5 The Witness. --me as much as they did. 
Mr. Hull. He is a French poet. 
Q 
A BY 
Why do you have a faction that hates you? What did you disagree on? 
Multiple things. They just didn't want --they didn't want any kind of 
6 structure whatsoever, which we --we never really had to begin with. Like I can't tell 218 
7 somebody what to do. If I would've gone there, if I would've gone to D.C. and been like, 
8 Hey, you guys got to march all the way over here down the street, like the guys will just 
9 be like, no, we're not going to do that. Nothing happens. But they just didn't want any 
10 structure whatsoever. 
11 And then what ended up happening is a story that I was an FBI informant back in 
12 2012 came out on January 27th. So some of the new guys that didn't watch my podcast, 
13 because I would talk about it on my podcast, they were like, Oh, my God, this is news to 
14 me. And, yeah, so --
15 Mr. Hull. Yeah, Aaron Ross helped on that, my friend Aaron. And I think what 
16 people --I don't know. There's really whacked out conspiracy theories on both sides, 
17 left and right. And there are people who have --there's just so much diversity and 
18 one-sided kind of partisan arguments, almost like, you know, there are thousands of 
19 people that think that Enrique, Henry Tarrio was a snitch, a Fed. And, I mean, it's 
20 like --it's like a club, a minor religion. 
21 And there is similar kinds of conspiracies you see over on the left as well about, 
22 you know, the ascendency of White supremacy. Western values have given us a lot 
23 and --and the institutions that we have now in a lot of --are --the east, the west has 
24 done a lot for us, especially the United States. 
25 To say that you're a western chauvinist, I'm sure I wouldn't use that word. That's  219 
1 not the worst thing in the world, the western civilization institutions have given us a lot. 
2 And often that's been demonized. That's, you know --you know, there are people who 
3 on both sides who kind of switched over --I raised money for Hillary Clinton, a lot of it. 
4 The Witness. You did? 
5 
6 
7 Mr. Hull. I did. 
The Witness. I'm burning this guy. 
Mr. Hull. No, no, no. It's --there are --you know, we've kind of, like, 
8 lost --reduced each other to stereotypes and cartoon characters and it's all this --you 
9 know, anyone involved with western values. Western values have a lot for me in my 
10 high school, college, and I feel like it doesn't make me a White supremacist or racist or 
11 even a conservative to appreciate those things. 
12 And where did it all go? And you think it's bad for, you know, people who are in 
13 Washington very good educations. People out in places like Ozarks, Kentucky, 
14 Tennessee, Michigan, they really don't know what to think anymore. And they may not 
15 be perfect, but their families have been here a long time, 400 years. That's a long time. 
16 And that doesn't make them special, but they --they feel like they should be consulted 
17 from time to time, and I think they think they're not. 
18 
19 
20 
21 Anything else you want to say? 
The Witness. No. But --okay. Any other questions? 
BY 
Q Well, actually, just one thing in response to what Mr. Hull just said. He was 
22 talking about western values, and I just --Mr. Tarrio, I don't know if you agreed with what 
23 he just said, but if you could describe what you think of as western values, just so that I'm 
24 clear what you're talking about. 
25 A I mean, western values to me is like democracy, the rule of law. I'm going  220 
1 to quote Gavin here. There's two types --and I know there's a lot more than two types 
2 of people in the world. 
3 
4 Mr. Hull. Gavin Mcinnes? 
The Witness. Yeah. There's people that want to be left alone and those that 
5 don't want to leave them alone, and I think the West is built on the premise that we just 
6 want to be left alone. We want to be able to practice whatever religion we want, we 
7 want to be able to own a property, and we want a Federal Government that's not too big 
8 not to fail. And I just --I think we're --I think we're not there anymore, and I would like 
9 to get back to that. 
10 BY 
11 Q Understood. I swear we're almost finished. I think maybe 15 more 
12 minutes tops. But two quick things before I get to the last line. Someone on our team 
13 who is far more technologically savvy than me was looking at that T-shirt that we were 
14 just talking about, the Proud Boys did nothing wrong, and said that the metadata from 
15 the website indicates it wasn't uploaded there until March of 2021. So I just wanted to 
16 give you a chance to speak to that and make sure that we're very clear on when it first 
17 went up on the website. 
18 A No. We --I had to change --so I'll find the archive. I'll do a supplemental 
19 for you guys. But that shirt --1 first sold that shirt --the first Proud Boy event that I sold 
20 that shirt in was September 11th of 2020. And I didn't have --I had the original listing 
21 on the site, because I changed the listings on the site all the time. 
22 But that shirt has been available since almost actually --I think it was beginning of 
23 2020 that that shirt has been available. Just the listing I probably --like my website is a 
24 mess. If you look at my home page, it's --it got hacked, it got taken down, and we've 
25 had to rebuild it. So that's probably just a newer listing.  1 Mr. Hull. And as I understood, the shirt "did nothing wrong" is a takeoff on an 
2 earlier --somebody else did nothing wrong. 
3 The Witness. No, the "did nothing" --that's what I'm saying. That's not the 
4 first shirt in the line. I've had "did nothing wrong" shirts for a very, very long time. 
5 
6 Q BY 
Understood. And did you ever sell any Stand Back and Stand By 
7 merchandise? 
8 A One of the vendors on my page actually beat me to it. But I wish I 
9 would've --I wish I would've made a Stand Back, Stand By shirt for myself. 
Mr. Hull. Good answer. All right. 
BY 221 
10 
11 
12 Q And why is that? Was that to show support for President Trump, or what 
13 was the --what would've been your impetus behind that? 
14 A I mean, just --it was our state of mind --because he made the shirt that 
15 same night. It was a state of mind that we're in. And I remember, I was just sitting 
16 with my family, you know, and we were watching the debate and I'd just come back from 
17 Portland. And I was falling asleep on the couch because it was so --the debate --that 
18 debate was so boring. And they started talking about Portland and I wake up, and they 
19 mentioned the Proud Boys. 
20 And I immediately --my life changed at that very moment because my phone did 
21 not stop ringing after that. And it was like how did a group of like drunk misfits go from 
22 a joke, because we started as a joke on Gavin Mcinnes' show to being front and center at 
23 both debates, as a matter of fact, because we got mentioned at both debates. No 
24 matter what it was, it was like, wow, like we got mentioned at the debate stage. And it 
25 was just -- Mr. Hull. It wasn't the content of what was said by Trump. 
The Witness. It was the fact that it was just said. 222 
1 
2 
3 Mr. Hull. It gave them cache, and it's all of a sudden, who, me? And they were 
4 kind of, you know, amazed. And it wasn't --I don't think most Proud Boys even think 
5 about what that might have suggested what he was saying. It was kind of ominous. 
6 But it's like, you know, being --it was like, you know, their ship came in, people knew who 
7 they were and who would've thought. 
8 BY 
9 Q Got it. So it was more of like a, Hey, we've made it, we're on the map kind 
10 of thing than anything else? 
11 
12 A Yeah, yeah. 
Q Okay. I remember seeing some reporting not that long after the debate 
13 that there was some folks online who were interpreting that as like a call to arms from 
14 Trump, and it sounds like that was not a call how you interpreted it? 
15 
16 
17 A No, I didn't take it that way. 
Mr. Hull. They never got --
The Witness. I mean, another thing that we're really good at is, like the media is 
18 easy to --like I know exactly how to push their buttons. So they took it and they ran 
19 with it, and we had fun with it too, so --
20 Mr. Hull. An extreme backlash is part of the satire that --
21 
22 The Witness. Yeah. 
Mr. Hull. And then they found a new toy with --antifa was not part of what they 
23 were about until about a year and a half in. God knows what they were up to the first 
24 year and a half, but that was, you know --that came later. 
25 The Witness. All right. Let's -- 223 
BY 1 
2 Q Well, I'm sorry somebody beat you to it. I guess, you don't have to approve 
3 it before it gets sold on your website? 
4 
5 A 
Q What? I'm sorry. 
I said, I'm sorry somebody beat you to it. It sounds like then you don't have 
6 to approve it before it gets on your website. They can just put it on there? 
7 A So in the beginning they didn't have to approve it, and then the guy started 
8 getting a little raunchy with some of the merchandise so I put it by approval. But after a 
9 little while, that specific vendor, I gave them the ability to post because he wouldn't post 
10 raunchy stuff. So I gave him the video to be posted, and he put it up and beat me to the 
11 punch. And I wish I would've made it, but --
12 Q Well, as I promised, very last line of questioning at least that I have and I 
13 think from my colleagues as well. I just wanted to circle back, and this is not 
14 substantive. This is just on documents. I know that we've been talking to Mr. Hull 
15 before today about the fact that some of your devices were seized by the FBI or DOJ and 
16 that that had made it difficult for you to prepare, which I totally understand. And to the 
17 extent that you get information later when you get your documents back that changes 
18 your answers here today, please let us know. We can very easily address that. 
19 But I wanted to get a sense of what documents you might currently have access 
20 to. I know that --you said they took your phones. You might still have access to emails 
21 or your iCloud or Google Drive, things of that nature? 
22 A So I'm a very simple person. I'm a --I hate paperwork. I hate any of that. 
23 Like all my information --like my life is my phone. So, like, I don't use email, that's 
24 another thing. So I really don't have anything besides, like, text messages. You guys 
25 have my phone records. And, like, I could --if you had a question about like a phone  224 
1 number I called, you know, I could tell you if I remembered. 
2 But Telegram and my text messages are like the only thing that I really use, 
3 because you guys --you ask specifically, like, from this date to this date any records 
4 concerning X, and all those records would be on my phone. 
5 Mr. Hull. Here's a list of --I got from him in jail of the schedule A that 
6 was --what he thought he had and didn't have. And it turned out when he went home 
7 and he made a search for hard copies he didn't really have any. But he gave me 
8 a --well, he answered one through twenty --
9 The Witness. I answered every single one. 
10 Mr. Hull. He answered every single one of them. And we weren't sure and we 
11 refined it. And I think as-and-might recall, I tried to --and I did --was 
12 able to talk about a few of these. But he wasn't sure. And the --I don't know if you 
13 ever tried to get documents --devices back from DOJ, but they're really kind of cagy 
14 about it even with things that are over. And I don't know why. I just don't want to 
15 work on it. But I have worked on it and I'll work on it more, and we'll get it eventually, 
16 but then we've got to see what's there. And if it's anything interesting then we have to 
17 decide in addition to being responsive whether, you know, it should go somewhere. 
18 BY 
19 
20 
21 
22 Q Understood. 
Mr. Hull. I don't think he's a very document-oriented person -­
The Witness. Yeah. 
Mr. Hull. --in terms of hard copies. There may be some things on really just 
23 two out of three devices, right? 
24 The Witness. Really, I mean, you're --and here I'll tell you, I think the only 
25 information that would be --that you guys would want would probably be on my phone,  225 
1 because on my laptop, I used to just produce my show and it was a live show. So the 
2 only thing I had on there --I just bought the laptop, so it's only like my intros, like my 
3 intro artwork and, like, maybe some pictures. And then I had an Apple watch that I had 
4 just bought. I hadn't even synced it to my phone yet. But --
5 
6 
7 
8 BY 
Q Are you going to get --
A I probably have a lot of stuff that you might want on my phone. 
Q Well, you're going to probably assume from my question that I'm an Android 
9 user and you would be right, but my understanding is that folks who use Apple, that they 
10 might have backups for even like their text messages to the cloud? Is that something 
11 that you have? 
12 A If --so I've had an iPhone for years, and I've never paid for like extra iCloud 
13 storage, so I'm maxed out. So it just doesn't --like I just bought a brand-new iPhone, 
14 and I was so angry because I missed all those messages while I was away. I missed all 
15 those messages because I'm like, okay, well, I have iMessage and at least those come in. 
16 It doesn't sync because it's full. 
17 
18 
19 Q All right. 
A So I get contacts with it. 
Q Do you have any sense of when it filled up, like at what point it stopped 
20 syncing? 
21 A Oh, the first year, that --probably like early --early two thousand --I mean 
22 late 2015, early 2016, that's it. It was full. 
23 
24 Q Got it. 
A Because I took pictures. So like I have no problem. I have --like I don't 
25 want to not give you guys --like I'm on probation right now. I don't want to get in any  226 
1 kind of trouble. So I want to give you guys what you want, but, like, they have my 
2 phone and they're refusing to --they've refused to give it back, because I know my 
3 previous attorney tried and tried and tried and they didn't want to go. 
4 Mr. Hull. And he's still helping me or trying to help me get it from the AUSA 
5 who's, you know, got the power to do that. He wants to look at it. And we do know 
6 it's in Florida, which is good to know. 
7 Understood. And then in order to give you the opportunity to 
8 come back with those documents later if and when you get them, we'll leave the record 
9 open so that we make sure we don't, you know, hold you to anything you said if you have 
10 a document later that you would like to correct the record with. But with I'm going to 
11 turn it back over to to wrap up. 
12 ~ Thanks,-. 
13 And again, both to Mr. Tarrio and Mr. Hull, and I know, Mr. Tarrio, 
14 at some points, you, I think, served as a bit of translator between us counsel here and 
15 helped us to smooth some things out, so I appreciate you for that. Thank you. 
16 The Witness. No problem. Thank you. 
17 Well, we appreciate the significant amount of time that you spent 
18 with us today, and I know I speak on behalf of 
19 when I said thank you. 
20 As- mentioned, we are not going to close the record on the deposition 
21 today because, number one, we're going to leave it open to afford you the opportunity to 
22 amend your testimony based off of any documents that you might receive; but second, 
23 because you asserted the Fifth Amendment to some questions today, the select 
24 committee has to determine the appropriate course of action forward on those 
25 objections.  227 
1 And I just want to pause here and see if any colleagues have any questions before 
2 we close out? 
3 I do just want to confirm for the record, with regards to 
4 statement about the Fifth Amendment, that's standard for us. If 
5 somebody claims it, we leave the record open. It's not that we're necessarily going to 
6 pursue anything. That's just standard procedure. 
7 The Witness. Yeah, and I get it. 
8 Well, Mr. Tarrio, Mr. Hull, thank you for your time today. 
9 Hearing no additional questions, the deposition will stand in recess subject to the 
10 call of the chair. 
11 Mr. Hull. I have one question. I'm just curious if you know, how many 
12 documents were in the USAfx box that I got last --I mean roughly. You didn't use them 
13 all today, right? 
14 I just want to be clear, we didn't use a USAfx box. We sent you 
15 materials using the website box which is a file transfer service. 
16 
17 Mr. Hull. Oh. 
Although, I do believe, , that box is the same service 
18 that U.S. DOJ uses, so you probably got some box files from DOJ and you got some box 
19 files from us. So what we sent you is not the USAF, I think as you called it, because 
20 we're separate from DOJ. We have nothing to do with that. But we use the 
21 same --it's like Dropbox or some other online site. 
22 Mr. Hull. It looked like the exact same technology and brand name, but I'll go 
23 look at it. 
24 Yes, it is the same service. 
25 Mr. Hull. It was hard to distinguish from anything I got from DOJ yesterday, and  228 
1 there's always a lot of it. And I'll look at it. But I just --does anybody have a ballpark 
2 idea in case it's not there, I can't find it? 
3 No. 
4 Mr. Hull. You can send it to me. How many documents were there, 100? 
5 What was the universe? 
6 I don't think there were 100. 
7 
8 ~ No. I'll get you the exact number, one second. 
Mr. Hull. Maybe you can send it to me again. The other thing is --
9 Well, sorry, Mr. Hull, our staffer who was handling that just told 
10 me it's 47 documents. 
11 Mr. Hull. Thank you. I appreciate that. That's good to know. And I don't 
12 know if this makes sense to you, but I would like to do the document --it's not a matter 
13 of --just supplement --you can always supplement, but I would also like to just do the 
14 document production when we get the devices anyway. 
15 The more I talk to Mr. Tarrio about it and think about the way he does things, 
16 especially after he went home and found like no responsive hard copies of anything, it 
17 may not be that hard to do, but at least he can go through the, you know, formal process 
18 of, you know, responding and doing that. And I think he always wanted to do that; he 
19 just wanted to do that with enough time and resources. 
20 
21 
22 The Witness. Thank you for not doing it while I'm in orange jumpsuit in jail. 
Mr. Hull. We'll talk about documents. 
The Witness. Okay. 
23 And we certainly understand that concern about documents, but I 
24 think you can probably understand, with no end date in site from DOJ, it's hard for us to 
25 say like let's hold off until we get that. But we are more than happy to revisit that when  229 
1 you do get documents back. As I'd said, we'd love to take Mr. Tarrio up on his offer to 
2 talk about where some of the --where his understanding some of the anger came from 
3 on January 6th because that really is something that we want to understand. 
4 The Witness. I would definitely. If you guys want, you guys tell me, like I'll sit 
5 down with you guys and we can go through --as long as we're not talking about anything 
6 in specific, and we're just talking about like how to fix this or what my beliefs are, or what 
7 I've heard, you guys can tell me and I'll come over here and we can have a discussion. 
8 
9 Fantastic. Thank you. 
Mr. Hull. And we will respond to it. And to the extent that you have questions 
10 about the Fifth Amendment privilege asserted in some of the questions, you know, we'll 
11 test it any way you want to do it. I don't mind. You know, an assessment of it, but we 
12 think this probably makes sense here. 
13 But still, you know, you can go to court, you can go to your chairman and your 
14 U.S. Attorney's Office as well. And we think, you know, we'd do okay there. It 
15 wouldn't be --you know, if you brought something under 192, 194, you know, for 
16 contempt that that would be the worst thing we'd ever seen. It's a hard thing to --
Well-- 17 
18 Mr. Hull. --to force this stuff, but we'd like to get --you know, use some kind of 
19 apparatus outside the committee if possible to test the validity of our assertion. And 
20 thank you for --
21 Well, Mr. Hull, again, I just wanted to clarify, when we said that 
22 about keeping the record open to evaluate the Fifth Amendment, that's a standard thing 
23 that we do. 
24 
25 Mr. Hull. I know. 
It doesn't mean that we're going to go anywhere with that. And  230 
1 Mr. Tarrio was actually very forthcoming about that time period, so I don't foresee that 
2 being a problem, but we will certainly let you know if it is. 
3 
4 
5 Mr. Hull. I understand. 
The Witness. Okay. 
Mr. Hull. And thank you and appreciate it. 
6 Mr. Tarrio, was there anything else you said to need on the record 
7 before we go off? 
8 
9 Mr. Hull. Yes, Mr. Tarrio, thank you for being such a good sport. 
All right. Thank you, all. The deposition will stand in recess 
10 subject to the call of the chair, and we'll go off the record at 5:10 p.m. 
11 [Whereupon, at 5:10 p.m., the deposition was recessed, subject to the call of the 
12 chair.]  1 
2 
3 Certificate of Deponent/Interviewee 
4 I have read the foregoing __ pages, which contain the correct transcript of the 
5 answers made by me to the questions therein recorded. 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 Witness Name 
Date 231 