To: Greg 
Cc: jackw 
From: Kenneth Chesebr 
Sent Fri 12/11/2020 3:37:35 AM (UTC) 
Subject Re: Dec. 14 vote by Arizona Trump-Pence electors --background material 
AZ --Dec 1 O draft of cover memo to be enclosed with certificates.docx 
Update --attached is a cover memo that would be sent with the Certificates. 
In terms of logistics, what's key is for the electors to assemble at the appointed time, and each personally sign the six (6) 
duplicate originals, make a copy of one of them (to convert to a PDF to circulate), and enclose each of them in an internal 
envelope, which will be tightly sealed, and labeled outside something like: 
"ELECTORAL VOTES OF THE STATE OF ARIZONA 
FOR PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES." 
This is the envelope that will then be opened only by the President of the Senate on January 6. 
Then, the four mailing envelopes would be addressed with the addresses I've listed in the memo. 
Pretty simple! 
Note: the items I've listed on the memo as sent by Registered Mail need to be sent by REGISTERED (not certified) mail, 
which is required by the statute. Certified mail didn't exist in the 1940s when the relevant statute was enacted. The Bush 
team almost messed up on this in 2000! 
I talked with evening with Mayor Guiliani, who is focused on doing everything possible to ensure that that all the Trump­
Pence electors vote on Dec. 14. If you think he could help with encouraging your fellow electors to make this happen, 
please do not hesitate to reach out to me, and I will do my best to get him to follow up. 
Ken 
From: Kenneth Chesebro 
Sent: Thursday, December 1 , 
To: Greg 
Cc: jackw leem 
Subject: Re: Dec. 14 vote by Arizona Trump-Pence electors --background material 
Greg and Jack, 
Here's a draft Certificate suitable for Arizona. 
I crafted it using "best practices" from the 2016 certificates of Arizona and the other 5 currently contested states. 
I also included a form that could be used to fill in vacancies --I would use multiple originals in the event more than one 
vacancy needs to be filled. 
I assume it would be appropriate for the electors to meet in the state capitol, even if there's no requirement under Arizona 
law that they do so. 
Ken 
KC_Elector_Correspondence_000211  From: Kenneth Chesebro 
Sent: Thursday, December 10, 2020 12:59 PM 
To: Greg Safsten 
Cc: jackw lee 
Subject: Dec. 14 vote by Arizona Trump-Pe nce electors --background material 
Mr. Safsten, 
Thank you for your call. 
As further background on the rationale for all Trump-Pence electors voting on Dec. 14, even in States in which they are not 
currently certified as the winners, I attach my memos of Nov. 18 and Dec. 9 (written to former judge Jim Troupis, who is 
heading up the Wisconsin challenge, on which I am assisting; I'm an appellate attorney and Wisconsin native with a 
background in constitutional litigation). 
The Nov. 18 memo is slightly streamlined, to remove early references to Wisconsin, and references to legal strategy. 
As samples of the paperwork that the Arizona electors would sign, attached is the draft the Wisconsin electors are 
currently using, and here is what the Trump-Pence electors signed in Arizona in 2016. 
Of course, I'd be happy to assist in any way that might be helpful. 
Ken 
Kenneth Chesebro 
25 Northern Avenue, # 1509 
Boston, MA 02210 
(Admitted in CA, FL, IL, MA, NJ, NY, and TX) 
https://www.linkedin. com/in/ken-chesebro 
KC_ Elector_ Correspondence_ 000212 