1 
2 
3 
4 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE 
5 JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL, 
6 U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
7 WASHINGTON, D.C. 
8 
9 
10 
11 INTERVIEW OF: CASSIDY HUTCHINSON 
12 
13 
14 
15 Wednesday, February 23, 2022 
Washington, D.C. 1 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 The interview in the above matter was held via Webex, commencing at 10:10 a.m. 
Present: Representatives Luria, Schiff, Murphy, and Cheney.  1 
2 Appearances: 
3 
4 For the SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE 
5 THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL: 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 , INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
, SENIOR COUNSEL 
PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBER 
SENIOR INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
, SENIOR INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
CHIEF INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
, SENIOR COUNSELOR TO THE VICE CHAIR 
, CHIEF CLERK 
, INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBER 
, PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBER 
21 For CASSIDY HUTCHINSON: 
22 
23 STEFAN PASSANTINO 2  1 
2 Mr.- It is 10:10 on February 23rd, and this is a transcribed interview of 
3 Ms. Cassidy Hutchinson. So as I just mentioned, this is a transcribed interview being 
4 conducted by the House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the 
5 United States Capitol pursuant to House Resolution 503. 
6 At this time, I'd ask you, Ms. Hutchinson, to introduce yourself and spell your last 
7 name for the record, please. 
8 Ms. Hutchinson. My name is Cassidy Hutchinson, and the last name is spelled 
9 H-u-t-c-h-i-n-s-o-n. 
10 Mr- Thank you. 
11 And, counsel, would you mind introducing yourself, please. 
12 Mr. Passantino. Yes. Stefan Passantino. Last name spelled P, as in 
13 Paul, -a-s-s, as in Sam, -a-n-t-i-n-o. 
14 
15 Mr- Thank you, Mr. Passantino. 
My name is I'm senior investigative counsel to the select 
16 committee, and this will be a staff-led interview. I'll be asking most of the questions, I 3 
17 
18 
19 
20 expect, but with me in the room are a number of other staff members for the committee. 
To my right is ■■■■■■■■ I investigative counsel for the committee. 
is also investigative counsel, to her right. To my left is_, chief 
investigative counsel to the select committee, and to his left is who's 
21 staff with the select committee. 
22 On the Webex, I don't know if you can see the list of participants, but there are a 
23 number of other folks who are on as well, including staff for the select committee. If 
24 you see, he is senior investigative counsel and of counsel to the vice 
25 chair, Ms. Liz Cheney.  4 
1 There may be members who join, and I'll try to announce their presence when 
2 they join so you're aware of it. They may come in and out, depending on schedule. If 
3 they do have any questions, what they'll typically do is turn on their camera, and I'll defer 
4 to them to ask any questions. 
5 There is an official reporter. You'll also see them on the list of participants. 
6 There's actually three listed right now. Only one of them will be taking the record at a 
7 time, but they'll often change out. But there will be one continuous record, though. 
8 So with that in mind, it is important, because that's the official record of the 
9 transcribed interview today, that I'll wait until you finish answering a question before I 
10 start my next question, and I'd ask that you wait till I finish asking my question to start 
11 your answer. That'll make it a lot easier for the record. 
12 And the other note on that is that the reporters can't take nonverbal answers like 
13 shaking your head. So we just ask that you answer in words and phrases. 
14 We do ask that you provide complete answers based on your best recollection. 
15 understand that some of this took place a while ago, and if there's something you don't 
16 remember, that's perfectly fine, and you can say so. 
17 Also, I don't always ask the best questions, and if you need clarification, please 
18 don't hesitate to ask. I'd rather make sure you understand the question I'm asking than 
19 answer something that you don't quite understand. 
20 Now, as I've spoken to Mr. Passantino about, this is not a deposition formally 
21 under the deposition rules. It is a transcribed interview, so it's not under oath. But I 
22 do want to remind you that it is unlawful to deliberately provide false information to 
23 Congress, and this is a proceeding of Congress and the select committee. 
24 Does everything that I've just gone over make sense to you, Ms. Hutchinson? 
25 Ms. Hutchinson. Yes, sir.  1 Mr.- Very good. And, logistically, before we get started in the 
2 substance of it, just please let us know if at any point you would like to take a break, if 
3 you'd like to speak with Mr. Passantino, have lunch, take any other breaks, and we can 
4 certainly accommodate that. 
5 I do find that it's been most useful in these, if you want to speak with 
6 Mr. Passantino, to turn off the camera as well as the microphone, and that way we won't 
7 overhear anything that you are speaking to him about. 
8 Do you have any questions before we begin, either you, Ms. Hutchinson, or you, 
9 Mr. Passantino? 
10 
11 Ms. Hutchinson. No, sir. 
Mr. Passantino. That went very well. 
12 Mr.- We are going to try, for the first time here, screen-sharing, and I 
13 asked- to pull up exhibit No. 1. I want to make sure first that you can see that and 
14 you're able to read it. 
15 
16 Ms. Hutchinson. Yep. Yeah, we can see that. 
Mr. Passantino. We are --we have something I have to say "got it" on 
17 something. Okay. Yeah, we have like a blue --okay, yeah, we're good. 
18 Mr.- You can see that? So this is a letter that was sent to you, 5 
19 Ms. Hutchinson, on January --or dated January 25th from the select committee. Do you 
20 recognize that letter? 
21 Ms. Hutchinson. I do. The one that was originally from November. 
22 Mr. - Yes, that's right. This is the second iteration of it. And you, 
23 Ms. Hutchinson, are appearing. The select committee subpoenaed you for both 
24 documents and testimony, and you're the person appearing here in response to that 
25 subpoena, correct, you're that Cassidy Hutchinson?  1 
2 Ms. Hutchinson. Yes, sir. 
Mr.- Okay. Part of the subpoena you received --and you can take this 
3 down,_ thank you --asked you to provide documents to the select committee. 
4 understand, in working with Mr. Passantino, that you've looked for documents and 
5 provided those to the committee, and I just want to go through some of the areas to 
6 make sure that we've captured everything. 
7 Did you look for electronically-stored documents in your computer? 
8 
9 
10 
11 there. 
12 Ms. Hutchinson. Yes. 
Mr.- Okay. And did you go through any emails that you might've had? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Yes, I did, my personal- and there was not anything on 
Mr.- Very good. And I know you provided to us quite a few text 
13 messages. Were there any other messages that you had that were responsive to the 
14 schedule of the subpoena? 
15 
16 Ms. Hutchinson. No, sir. 
Mr. Passantino. Were you asking in addition to text, like, such as WhatsApp or 
17 Signal or a different --
18 Mr- So first the text messages, but that's --you anticipated my next 
19 question. 
20 Did you have any messaging applications that --in which --that you used to send 
21 messages that also contained responsive information to the subpoena? 
22 Ms. Hutchinson. Yes. The only ones that --I did turn over some, and I believe 
23 they were Scott Perry, Congressman Scott Perry, and perhaps Phil Waldron. But those 
24 were the only messages that I had on the only messaging app I had, which was Signal. 
25 Mr.- Very good. Thank you. 6  7 
1 How about social media, did you look through direct messages that you may have 
2 sent or received on social media platforms, like Facebook or Twitter, lnstagram? 
3 Ms. Hutchinson. Yes, but I don't --I don't really use social media, so there is not 
4 anything responsive on that. 
5 Mr. - Okay. And as we're walking through this and asking questions, if 
6 there's something that comes to mind, you think about another place where there might 
7 be responsive information, other email accounts or messages that you may have sent or 
8 received, you know, please let us know about that, and I can work with Mr. Passantino 
9 afterwards to address that. 
10 Ms. Hutchinson. Of course. 
11 EXAMINATION 
12 BYMR.-
13 Q All right. So then I'll start with your background. I understand you 
14 graduated from Christopher Newport University in 2018. Is that right? 
Yes. 15 
16 A 
Q Then you had several internships, it looks like, including with Representative 
17 Scalise, Senator Cruz, and then in the White House Office of Legislative Affairs, and those 
18 were kind of before 2018 and including 2018. Is that right? 
19 
20 A 
Q Correct. 2017, 2018. 
All right. So what was your first position in the White House, paid position 
21 as an employee? 
22 A I was in the Office of Legislative Affairs on the House team, and I believe my 
23 title when I first started was staff assistant, and then it turned to all Member services 
24 coordinator for the House of Representatives. 
25 Q And what were the dates, roughly, that you did --you had those roles?  8 
1 A Roughly --I don't have the paperwork in front of me, but roughly February 
2 2019 until March 2020. 
3 Q You said you were on the House team and then had another role. 
4 Generally, could you describe what your responsibilities were? 
5 A Yeah. Mostly administrative on the House team, especially for the first 
6 part. And then going into the summer of 20---2019, that's when I took over the 
7 Member services portfolio for the House of Representatives, so I dealt mainly with 
8 Member relations and communications. But, again, I responded to the deputy assistant 
9 for Legislative Affairs, which was my boss at the time, on the House team and --I mean, 
10 mostly communicating with Members about any constituency concerns that they had, 
11 any legislative concerns that they had, or any information they wanted to relay upwards 
12 to the President mostly went through me and their chiefs of staff. 
13 Q And did you deal directly with the Members or just the Members' staffs? 
14 A With Members. On the Democrat side, primarily their staff. But primarily 
15 for House Republicans, it was either the Member themselves, or if they were in 
16 leadership or a chair or ranking member of a committee, I would deal with the chief of 
17 staff. 
18 Q One of the Members you just mentioned when we were talking about 
19 messages was Scott Perry. Is that how you first met and started communicating with 
20 Mr. Perry? 
21 A I first met Mr. Perry when I was in Legislative Affairs, yes, but I believe when 
22 I moved over to the chief of staff's office in March 2020 is when we started kind of 
23 building a more formal relationship. 
24 Q You said --you mentioned your boss, I believe, in Member services. Who is 
25 that?  1 
2 A 
Q His name is Ben Howard. 
And you mentioned going to the chief of staff's office around March 2020. 
3 Tell us, what was your position there and what were your responsibilities? 
4 A My position --I believe my title changed a few times. I went over to the 
5 chief of staff's office as an executive assistant to the chief of staff. And then we kind of 
6 transformed my role a little bit more into a legislative adviser, I believe, was my specific 
7 title, that was my role with him. 
8 My responsibilities changed from day to day --from a day-to-day basis. You 
9 know, every --every day kind of took a different breadth, but mostly administrative 
10 functions. I traveled with the chief of staff. If you want me to be a little bit more 
11 specific, I'm happy to do so. 
12 Q Sure. And we'll get into some of those functions, I think, as we walk 
13 through some of the messages and events, but that's helpful background. 
14 Did you direct --report directly to Mr. Meadows? 
15 
16 A 
Q Yes, sir. 
Did you report to anybody else after you took on this new role as executive 
17 assistant to the chief of staff in March? 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 A Report to anybody else in terms of my senior counterpart or --
Mr. Passantino. He's asking like who your boss was. 
Ms. Hutchinson. It was always Mr. Meadows. 
BYMR.-
Q And you mentioned your title potentially changing. I understand at one 
23 point, and I may have this wrong, but you were special assistant to the President and 
24 coordinator for leg affairs. Is that right? 
25 A That's correct. Special assistant to the President was my commission, and 9  10 
1 then my job title was coordinator for legislative affairs, and then I believe it transferred to 
2 legislative adviser. 
3 
4 
5 Q 
A Understood. 
Probably around September or October. 
Q All right. And then after you left the White House --did you leave on 
6 January 20th, 2021? 
7 
8 
9 A Yes. That was my last day. 
Q What'd you do after you left the White House? 
A I was with the former President in his post-Presidential operation. 
10 primarily stayed up in D.C., but I traveled down to Florida a couple times. 
11 
12 Q Were you employed by a specific entity? 
A I believe the General Services Administration is the one specifically, but it's 
13 through the Office of the Former President was who I worked for. But it's --
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 Q 
A How long did you work there? Oh, I'm sorry. 
No, you're fine, you're fine. Six months. 
Q Six months. So until roughly, what, July of 2021? 
A I believe so. 
Q Okay. Why'd you leave there? 
A The contract was up. It was a 6-month contract. 
Q Where'd you go after that, employmentwise? 
A I took a little bit chime off, and then I started to job search, and then all of 
22 this started happening, so I am still sitting here waiting for this to kind of transpire. 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A Understood. So not working currently? 
That's correct. 
Q All right. So I do want to go back and we're going to explore a lot of your  11 
1 job responsibilities in the White House. I know you worked on the legislative affairs 
2 side. Did you have any specific policy areas that you worked on as well? 
3 A No. No, we had a team that was --had the House committees divided up, 
4 and they had the --like the policy areas. I was more broad and just focusing on Member 
5 services and communications with Members. 
6 
7 Q 
A Okay. How often would you communicate with Members, roughly? 
Roughly, daily. Now, depending on whether the House was in session or in 
8 recess, it fluctuated with the frequency of communications, but I would say every day, if it 
9 wasn't a Member, I would speak to a chief of staff on a daily basis. 
10 Q And once you got to the --to the executive assistant to Mr. Meadows, how 
11 were assignments given to you? 
12 
13 A 
Q From Mr. Meadows. 
Would he --would you meet with him every day to talk about your daily 
14 activities, things like that? 
15 A Yes. And I want to be clear, my role with Mr. Meadows wasn't specifically 
16 just for legislative affairs. I was more of an administrative role for him, and legislative 
17 affairs responsibilities came because I built a relationship with him when I was in the 
18 Office of Legislative Affairs. 
19 So we did meet daily if --very frequently. I mean, I was with him all day pretty 
20 much. We shared the same office space, but I wasn't in his office. But we --I helped 
21 him execute his daily schedule. So we would meet prior to meetings just kind of on 
22 background for meetings. 
23 So it wasn't just all specifically legislative affairs. We still had the Office of 
24 Legislative Affairs. That was just a component of my job with him. So he would have 
25 the face-to-face interaction with Members that he wanted to have, kind of coming from  12 
1 the House and going to the chief of staff role. 
2 Q I understand. And you mentioned where the office was, you shared space 
3 or next to Mr. Meadows. Where in the White House is that? 
4 A It's on the second floor of the West Wing. It's technically the first floor if 
5 you --it's just the corner office next to the Vice President's office, there's a big like 
6 bullpen area, and then Mr. Meadows had a private office off that area. 
7 
8 
9 
10 Q 
A 
Q 
A Is that on the same floor as the Oval Office? 
Yes. 
All right. And who else was seated around you and Mr. Meadows? 
There was a lady named Eliza Thurston, who was Mr. Meadows' scheduler; 
11 and Michael Haidet, who was the President's scheduler; and this other lady, her name 
12 was Kathryn Klein, and she was --she was a scheduler for a policy adviser, Mr. John 
13 Fleming. She didn't have any other office space, so we had her in our office. Very 
14 small office space. 
15 
16 Q 
A Excuse my ignorance, but is this --oh, I'm sorry, go ahead. 
No, you're fine. I just said it's a small office space, so it's --the West Wing 
17 is small and you have to kind of put people where there's room. 
18 Q Got it. And forgive me for not knowing this, but is this in the area that's 
19 known as the Outer Oval, or is that something different? 
20 A The Outer Oval is the Oval secretary's office. That is immediately off the 
21 Oval Office. But if we're thinking about it in relation to the chief of staff's office, it's 
22 similar in its layout. 
23 Q All right. So would you be near the Outer Oval then? I mean, were you 
24 constantly in contact with the folks who were sitting in the Outer Oval? 
25 A I was constantly in contact with them, yes, because Mr. Meadows frequently  13 
1 met with the President. But in terms of spatial awareness, my office, I guess, was 
2 technically closer to the Oval Office. If you were to look at a map of the West Wing and 
3 just --I mean, it's probably another 20 feet further to the Outer Oval. 
4 Mr. Passantino. And,_, forgive me, I don't mean to interrupt. I think 
5 what he's asking, is your office in relationship to where the Oval Office is, like, is it right 
6 next door, is it down the hall? Don't let me ask your question for you, but I just want to 
7 make sure you're asking the same question. 
8 Mr- Yeah, that's helpful. 
9 Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah. I mean, I think there's a map online of it somewhere, 
10 but if you're looking at the layout, picture like one long hallway. It's the chief of staff's 
11 office, and then there's the senior adviser's office, which is Mr. Kushner's office. And 
12 then little bit further down, you would have the --I think it's called the butler's pantry, 
13 and then that leads into the Oval dining room. A little bit further than that is the Oval 
14 Office, and then a little bit further than that would be the Outer Oval. 
15 BYMR.-
16 Q That's great. Yeah, perfect. Thank you for that. 
17 So as an assistant to Mr. Meadows, if Mr. Meadows wanted to have a meeting or 
18 somebody wanted to have a meeting with him, would that go through you typically? 
19 A I think it would be dependent on the subject matter. Ms. Thurston and I 
20 divided our roles up a little bit differently. Her role was a little bit more formal in terms 
21 of if it was an assistant reaching out to her to have something formally scheduled, she 
22 would facilitate based off of that, and she would put everything on the calendar for him. 
23 I didn't have a scheduling role, but I also had a role with Mr. Meadows that I had 
24 the proximity to him and the relationship with him that I also had a lot of principals 
25 frequently reach out to me asking for a meeting. And I kind of used my relationship  14 
1 with him and my knowledge of the subject matter to decide if I should defer to 
2 Ms. Thurston and use that --use her as the crux to kind of facilitate that meeting or if it 
3 was something that I could have a private conversation with the chief of staff about, and 
4 it could be resolved in a phone call or just from me relaying a message to him. 
5 Q What about the President, how often would you meet the --meet with the 
6 President during a typical week, on average? 
7 A Formally meet? Not frequently, espec---in specific, basically the period 
8 that we're speaking about. But, you know, I had access and exposure to him just by 
9 nature of my role with Mr. Meadows, especially with travel. But in the period between 
10 November to January, it was somewhat limited. We have a relationship, but it 
11 wasn't --it was primarily everything was facilitated through the chief of staff at that time. 
12 Q Okay. And you mentioned formally meeting. How about informally? 
13 And you mentioned you had a relationship with the President. Can you just explain that 
14 as well? 
15 A The informal --informal meetings would mostly be if the chief of staff asked 
16 me to run something in to a meeting that he was in with the President. And my 
17 relationship with the President is pretty much based off of how he knew my relationship 
18 was with Mark and with us traveling, as well as his role that --like the role that he knew I 
19 played with House Republicans in the legislative affairs scope. 
20 Q Would he come to you with questions about, say, the legislative affairs side 
21 of your job and what was going on on the Hill? 
22 A Infrequently. 
23 Q When you say run something into meetings for Mr. Meadows, would that be 
24 a note? What do you mean by that? 
25 A I mean, by nature of the job, you're constantly marking up documents,  15 
1 anything that --if he needed an updated palm card with updated meeting participants. 
2 It was administrative things. It wasn't anything of substance or consequence. 
3 Q Would you see a lot of the documents that --and maybe a lot is unfair --but 
4 would you see documents that went through Mr. Meadows' office in part of his official 
5 responsibilities to mark up or comment on, for example? 
6 
7 A 
Q Yes. 
Okay. And we'll get through some of those, but can you give us an example 
8 where, you know --yes, go ahead. 
9 Mr. Passantino. I just want to make sure that the record is clear. And again, 
10 don't let me ask your questions. Were you asking like whether she saw all the 
11 documents or occasional documents? And I just want to make sure the record's clear 
12 on your question and her answer. 
13 Mr. Yeah. No, I appreciate that. 
14 Not necessarily all the documents, but was it a part of your job to see at least 
15 some of the documents that went through Mr. --or that Mr. Meadows had the 
16 responsibility of drafting or marking up in his role as chief of staff? 
17 Ms. Hutchinson. I mean, of course, you're printing out and receiving sometimes 
18 dozens or hundreds of pages a day, ranging from things of tweets to comments that 
19 people were making. But, yeah, I would say that I didn't --I definitely did not have 
20 access to all documents, but there were a number of documents that I would have seen 
21 by nature of my role. 
22 Mr. - Okay. And I think we're going to show you some. Don't know if 
23 you've seen them or not, and if you hadn't, that's fine, but it's helpful to understand that 
24 background. 
25 Besides the people you've already listed and talked about, was there anybody else  16 
1 that you worked closely with to perform your job as executive assistant to Mr. Meadows? 
2 Ms. Hutchinson. I would say everybody --most people in the West Wing, again, 
3 other Members of Congress on the Hill, and people from --I mean, I would speak, for 
4 example, with Mr. Ratcliffe. But other than that, you know, we --I kind of had a more, 
5 in the period between November and January, a more tailored scope in terms of who we 
6 were communicating with and what was actually useful communications during that 
7 period. So we didn't --it was pretty limited at that time. 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 Mr. - Understood. 
Before we move off of that background, any questions? 
Mr. No. Thanks. 
BY MR 
Q All right. We're going to jump around a little bit datewise, but I want to 
13 first focus your attention on January 5th and January 6th of 2021. So I understand on 
14 January 5th, 2021, there's a meeting in the Oval Office in the evening. Some of the 
15 participants included Judd Deere, Chad Gilmartin, and Sarah Matthews. Do you know 
16 the meeting that I'm talking about? 
17 
18 A 
Q No. 
Were you involved in an Oval Office meeting on January the 5th, 2021, in the 
19 evening? 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 A Not that I recall. 
Q Okay. And we may come back to other aspects of January 5th, 2021 --
Mr.~ But 
BYMR-
Q Yeah, on that, Ms. Hutchinson, we understand that there was a gathering 
25 more than a meeting, that the doors were open, the door that led outside, and there was  17 
1 noise from outside. The President invited some junior staff into the Oval Office. It 
2 wasn't a scheduled formal meeting but more of an impromptu get-together. Do you 
3 recall being present for that or hearing about it? 
4 A I was not present for it, but I do remember hearing about the instance that 
5 you're speaking about where the doors were open and there was noise coming from I 
6 believe the southern area of the Ellipse. 
Right. 7 
8 Q 
A But it wasn't --definitely was not formal. And, yeah, I think that there was 
9 people around frequently in the West Wing, so it's not something out of the ordinary for 
10 people to wander in and out of the Outer Oval and to be invited to something of that 
11 nature. 
12 Q Yeah, I appreciate that. It sounds very informal. But tell us what you 
13 heard about it and from whom. 
14 A I believe what's already been described, there was music playing from the 
15 southern area of the Ellipse. I'm not sure if it was on the Ellipse as pre-rally events or if 
16 it was from a different area on Constitution Avenue. But, you know, I think people knew 
17 that the rally was the next day, we had people coming to town for it, and the doors 
18 probably happened to be open. And I think that word had probably traveled at that 
19 point to kind of maybe go down there and gather just to see what people were hearing. 
20 Q And tell me who told you about the meeting. Was it someone who was 
21 actually --or not the meeting, let's call it a gathering --anybody who was actually present 
22 for it that described it for you? 
23 A No. I remember Mr. Scavino was filming, and he had sent the raw footage, 
24 I believe, to Mr. Meadows --I don't know if it was on his official device or his personal 
25 device, but to put out on the President's Twitter that night. And I believe that  1 Mr. Scavino put it out on his Twitter. But other than that, there was no matters that 
2 were discussed, at least in my --
3 Q Okay. Ms. Hutchinson, did you ever see any of that footage that 
4 Mr. Scavino recorded and sent to Mr. Meadows? 
5 
6 A 
Q Only what was publicly released on Twitter that evening. 
Okay. Do you know if it was essentially filmed using a cell phone, just 
7 essentially holding up a personal device? 
8 
9 A 
Q Likely a cell phone. I'm not sure if it would be work or personal. 
Okay. And did you hear anything, Ms. Hutchinson, about the President's 
10 statements or mood at that gathering? 
11 
12 A 
Q I believe just being excited for the rally the next day. 
Did anyone ever account to you anything that he specifically said, either 18 
13 about what was going on currently on the Ellipse or what he expected to happen the next 
14 day? "He" being the President. 
15 
16 A 
Q That's my recollection where I can give you a definitive response. 
Okay. So you didn't hear anything specifically about anything the President 
17 said or did during that gathering? 
18 A Yeah, not specifically to my memory that I could give you a definitive 
19 response. I know that there was talks about the rally the next day and --which I'm sure 
20 we'll get into as we go through these proceedings. But in that specific instance, no, not 
21 to my recollection that I can give you a definitive response. 
22 Q Okay, I appreciate that. I know you weren't there. Who was there, as far 
23 as you know, anyone that you could say was part of this gathering, besides Mr. Scavino 
24 who was filming? 
25 A To be honest, I --the three names that you previously stated --that  1 previously stated were news to me. So other than Mr. Scavino, I wasn't 
2 aware that anybody else was there, other than who naturally would be there because 
3 they had offices --their office was the Outer Oval. 
4 
5 Q 
A Yeah. 
And of course, Mr. Meadows was likely wandering back and forth at that 19 
6 time, which is why Mr. Scavino had showed the video footage that he had gotten. But, 
7 yeah, I was not even aware that there was a gathering there at that point. 
8 
9 
10 
11 Mr- Okay. All right. I appreciate it,. Sorry to interrupt you. 
Mr- No, it's fine. 
BYMR.-
Q So Mr. Scavino, can you talk a little bit about him and what your working 
12 relationship was like with Mr. Scavino? 
13 A My working relationship with Mr. Scavino, like every other senior principal in 
14 the West Wing, was primarily just for communications with the chief of staff. 
15 
16 Q 
A And what would be an example of that? 
If he --if Mr. Scavino needed a tweet reviewed, if he had a question for the 
17 chief of staff, he would know to primarily go through me because I had the proximity to 
18 the chief of staff. Very infrequently he would go to Eliza, Ms. Thurston, because he 
19 didn't frequently have scheduled sit-down meetings with the chief of staff. 
20 Mr. Meadows spent most of his day either in his office with the door shut or in the 
21 Oval Office with the President. So Mr. Scavino had the access that he needed to the 
22 chief of staff in order to perform the duties in his role. 
23 Q There were a couple of tweets that went out January 5th in the evening 
24 around 5 o'clock that reference --and I don't have them in front of me, but they 
25 reference something about large crowds gathering and there being maybe some degree  20 
1 of anger about the election. Do you recall tweets like that going through you to 
2 Mr. Meadows for approval on January the 5th? 
3 A I do not. 
4 Q Okay. And Mr. Scavino, I understand that he's one of the people who had 
5 access to the President's Twitter account, meaning he had the authority to post from. Is 
6 that accurate and what you recall as well? 
7 A From what I recall, yes, but I am not comfortable giving a definitive 
8 response. It's a question that you'd have to ask Mr. Scavino to get a definitive response. 
9 But yes, that is --my understanding is that he did have access to the President's Twitter. 
10 Q 
11 account? 
12 
13 
14 
15 A 
Q 
A 
Q Are you aware of anybody else who could post from the President's Twitter 
No, sir. 
Other than the President? He had authority to do it as well? 
Correct. 
Sure. So Mr. Scavino, it seemed like, was --had a social media portfolio. 
16 And I'm probably not saying that all that well, but in your understanding, was Mr. Scavino 
17 paying attention to what was happening on social media and kind of the eyes and ears of 
18 social media for the President? 
19 A Yes. But I also believe that there were a number of people in the press 
20 operation that had eyes and ears on social media, as is any nature of the White House 
21 and in most congressional offices, I believe, as well. So I don't --it wasn't just 
22 Mr. Scavino's job to monitor social media. We had teams of people that would do that. 
23 But, again, that's role specific, and if they needed something elevated, it would likely go 
24 through Mr. Scavino or through Ms. McEnany. 
25 Q Yeah, fair enough. Are you familiar --some of the social media, I assume,  21 
1 that was on everybody's mind, Twitter, lnstagram, is that accurate, those were important 
2 sources of messaging and platforms for messaging for the White House? 
3 
4 
5 Mr. Passantino. You understand the question? 
Ms. Hutchinson. No. Could you please clarify? 
Mr.- Of course I can. How important were Twitter and lnstagram, in 
6 your experience, for the White House messaging? 
7 Mr. Passantino. If you have --I mean, that's somewhat subjective, but answer as 
8 best you can. 
9 Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah. I mean, again, I don't have a role in social media. 
10 personally am not on social media. I have accounts, but I don't --they're not active. 
11 don't really use them. But, again, in terms of any political candidate or representative in 
12 the government, I believe social media is a valuable asset for them. It's how they reach 
13 their constituency and the American people. 
14 So, yes, it was an important tool for us to use at the White House, as is for 
15 Members of Congress and U.S. Governors and any other public figure. But other than 
16 that, I think it's too specific for me to answer in the role that I played with Mr. Meadows. 
17 Mr.- And I'd just note for the record that Mr. Schiff, member of 
18 the select committee, has just joined us as well. 
19 BYMR.-
20 Q Do you know if Mr. Scavino was aware of --there's a Reddit site related to 
21 President Trump called TheDonald. Do you know if Mr. Scavino was aware of that site? 
22 
23 
24 A 
Q 
A I'm not sure. 
Do you know if Mr. Meadows was? 
I --I don't believe so, but I can't answer definitively. I'm not sure if he 
25 knew, but he would speak to me about social media, and that's never something that he  22 
1 mentioned. 
2 Q Okay. Yeah, and that's fair. All I'm asking is what you know, and I don't 
3 want you to speculate either. That's not helpful for anybody. 
4 But do you know, in your experience with Mr. Scavino and Mr. Meadows, did they 
5 ever bring up a website called TheDonald.win? Do you ever remember that coming up? 
6 
7 A 
Q No, sir. 
Can you speak generally, on the --on the 5th --you know, you talked about 
8 that gathering a little bit that you had heard about and Mr. Scavino was there. Did you 
9 learn about that through Mr. Scavino? 
10 A Which instance? 
11 Q The gathering on the 5th with the open door. 
12 A To be honest, again, as I previously stated, I wasn't aware that there was a 
13 gathering. I was under the impression it was more of Mr. Meadows, Mr. Scavino, the 
14 President's Outer Oval team were in the area. They had heard noise coming from the 
15 outside area, and they had opened the doors to the Oval Office or the Outer Oval. 
16 Again, as I previously stated, it was not unlikely that --or it was not out of the 
17 ordinary for people to wander in and out of the area, especially if there was a little bit of 
18 noise happening, but I wasn't aware of any gathering until you previously stated it a 
19 couple minutes ago. 
20 Q I think you said that at one point --I don't want to put words in your 
21 mouth --that the President was, on January the 5th, excited about the rally the next day. 
22 Can you explain what you mean by that and how you learned that? 
23 A Like, rallies were, I think, were a core part of our administration and his 
24 political candidacy. So when I say --I don't know if I used the word "excited," and I don't 
25 want to quote myself because I don't have the --I don't remember the exact word that I  23 
1 used, like, he was looking forward to the rally the next day, and there was logistical plans 
2 underway for it. But, again, nothing out of the ordinary for any other rally planning or 
3 discussions before an event that we had. 
4 Q And I note just for the record and your awareness that Mrs. Murphy, also a 
5 select committee member, has joined this interview. 
6 A Thank you. 
7 Q Did you ever talk to the President before January 6th about his expectations 
8 for the rally on January the 6th? 
9 A Not to my immediate recollection. When we traveled to Georgia on 
10 January 4th --I believe it was January 4th. I believe it was January 4th --for the rally 
11 that evening --it was the 3rd or 4th, I can't recall right now --there was discussions about 
12 which Members could potentially be attending the rally. But my communications with 
13 that went through the Office of Political Affairs, and I deferred to them on most matters 
14 related to rally attendees. 
15 I personally didn't want anything to do with that because that wasn't my realm. 
16 It was more for me to communicate with the chief of staff if the chief of staff had 
17 preferences for Members to attend rallies. And this was --as we went through the 2020 
18 election period, this was just the system that we had in place. So I would consult with 
19 Mr. Brian Jack, who was the director of the Office of Political Affairs for Mr. Trump, about 
20 Member attendance. And there were discussions on the plane flying to and from 
21 Georgia, the rally that night, but there was no one-on-one conversations of me talking to 
22 the President about which Members that I believe should be there. 
23 Q The conversations on the plane on the way to Georgia, who were involved in 
24 those discussions? 
25 A I recall Senator Lindsey Graham being in the room and  24 
1 Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene. I can't recall who else. It would have been in 
2 the conference room on the plane that evening. You know, he brought people up to his 
3 office at points, especially, I think, on the flight back. I know on the flight back he 
4 brought people up to his office. 
5 The flight there was primarily talking about speech writing for the rally, but I 
6 remember on the flight back I was in the conference room with the Senator and the 
7 Congresswoman, and there were discussions of that matter. But there was --there was 
8 no conclusions on it. It was mostly just talk about the rally in general for January 6th. 
9 There were no invitations extended on the flight that evening. 
10 Q So in that conference room on Air Force One, the flight down there, I believe 
11 you mentioned Senator Graham, Ms. Marjorie Taylor Greene. The President was in that 
12 room as well? 
13 A I don't know about on the flight to Georgia that evening, but on the flight 
14 back from Georgia, he would always walk around after rallies on the plane to talk to staff, 
15 to talk to guests. Sometimes he would go back and talk to the press. I don't recall him 
16 going back to talk to the press that evening, but that night he went into the conference 
17 room, and I was in the conference room with the Members. 
18 Q Who else was in that conference room? So the President, Lindsey Graham, 
19 Marjorie Taylor Greene, you. Was Mr. Meadows there? 
20 A Mr. Meadows was in there. I don't recall anybody else specifically. I'm 
21 sure there were people in and out of the conference room that night, but I can't recall 
22 anybody off the top of my head that would be there to participate in the discussion. 
23 
24 
25 Q 
flight? 
A Can you tell us exactly what you remember from those discussions on that 
I don't think I can speak to anything exactly. This is just from my memory  25 
1 that's over a year ago at this point, but I --mostly just top-line discussions about the rally 
2 on the 6th, how many people we thought we were going to be there, if they'd heard 
3 anything positive or negative from their constituents, things of that nature. It wasn't 
4 anything of substance or consequence. 
5 Q When you say top line for the rally, could you expand on that a little bit 
6 more? What was the top-line discussion? 
7 A Nothing out of the ordinary for a rally discussion. Again, just logistical 
8 planning about his speech and what we could kind of expect from the rally in terms of, I 
9 think I previously stated, the crowd size, people who could potentially attend, if they had 
10 any thoughts or insight on what he should say. It was very informal, a casual 
11 conversation between people who had just kind of grown to become friends through the 
12 administration in that period. 
13 
14 
15 
16 6th? 
17 
18 day. 
19 
20 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q Was there any talk about marching to the Capitol? 
On the plane that night, not that I can recall. 
Do you remember marching to the Capitol ever coming up before January 
I remember discussions about whether people would go to the Capitol that 
And I'll put a pin in that, and I'll come right back to it. 
You also mentioned that in that conference room on the flight, you talked about 
21 the President's speech. Is there anything in particular that --themes or suggestions that 
22 you recall coming up in that conversation about the speech? 
23 A Nothing I could speak definitively on. Mostly primarily just how to phrase 
24 "stop the steal" versus anything else. He was very big on running things through people 
25 to kind of get their insight on the phrasing of his words to make sure it was how he would  26 
1 like to say it and how he thinks it would be best received by people so it was very clear. 
2 You know, he's --he's somebody that loves and values the insight of other people that he 
3 trusts and, you know, I think that's one of his unique characteristics and great 
4 characteristics, and that it was just him consulting with people that he trusted and 
5 considered friends to formulate what he was going to say that day. But it was, again, 
6 very informal. I don't recall anything specific. 
7 Just for the purposes of this discussion, that's what I recall at this point. If there 
8 is anything else that I can recall from that, I'll certainly circle back with you. 
9 Q That's great. Thank you. 
10 Just on that, one more point on that, for me, you said people were thinking about 
11 how to phrase certain things, including stop the steal. Is there something about stop 
12 the steal in that conversation that stands out to you? 
13 A No. Nothing out of the ordinary for what we were --what was underway at 
14 the time. 
15 Q If you could tell, what was the President's primary objective with the speech 
16 on January 6th? 
17 A To relay the message that he had been relaying the last several weeks. 
18 Again, I don't think it's anything that --I don't believe it's anything that was out of the 
19 ordinary or was not publicly released, especially up until this point. Discussions were 
20 very, very public at that point. And there wasn't anything that he added or contributed 
21 to that that would've been off message from what was already previously stated either 
22 from our media surrogates or from himself directly. 
23 We'd just come from a rally that night, so it was mostly generating feedback from 
24 that rally to create what we were anticipating for the next one just 36 hours later. 
25 Q And when you say the message that he had been conveying for the past  27 
1 couple of weeks, are you talking about the stolen election messaging? 
A Message that we weren't sure if we should trust the results of the election. 
BYMR.-2 
3 
4 Q Yeah. On that meeting, Ms. Hutchinson, you mentioned earlier that there 
5 was some talk about numbers or the number of people that might be coming. Do you 
6 remember any specific number being mentioned either by the President or by anybody 
7 else in the conference room on Air Force One? 
8 
9 A 
Q I do not. 
Do you remember there being a sense of a large crowd or a small crowd? 
10 Or just tell us a little bit more about the discussion, if anything you recall about the 
11 numbers of people. 
12 A We actually anticipated a larger crowd attending, but we never anticipated a 
13 small crowd attending our rallies. 
14 Q Do you remember any thousands or specific number, or it was just going to 
15 be a large crowd? 
16 
17 A 
Q Large crowd. 
Okay. Do you remember any discussion about management of that crowd, 
18 like the National Guard, or sort of whether there were any preparations for a large 
19 crowd? 
20 A Not in the conference room that evening. Again, this is a top-line 
21 conversation between friends, nothing --no formalities were discussed in the conference 
22 room that night that I was privy to. 
23 
24 Q Yeah. Okay. And I appreciate you being meticulous about that. I think 
is going to walk you forward to other conversations, but --so sticking to that 
25 meeting. Do you remember anything that Ms. Taylor Greene or Senator Graham said  28 
1 about their expectations or conveyed any information about their expectations for the 
2 6th? 
3 A Nothing really particular where I would be comfortable conveying a 
4 definitive response to you, but gave him positive feedback for the rally that night, let's do 
5 it again in a couple days and we'll see what happens on the 6th. It's not --again, nothing 
6 of substance or consequence that was out of the ordinary or had been previously 
7 discussed either privately or publicly that's not currently available publicly. 
8 Q Yeah. I understand, and I appreciate you indicating what is of substance or 
9 consequence. That said, we're interested in everything, even stuff that seems relatively 
10 small or innocuous, really just any detail that you recall. So, again, I appreciate your 
11 meticulous response --
12 
13 A 
Q I understand --I understand that. 
--but we want stuff even beyond --yeah, anything beyond, whether it's 
14 substantive or consequential, it's not as clear. 
15 
16 
17 A 
Q I'm not here to hypothesize --I'm not here to hypothesize. 
Yeah. 
Mr. Passantino. I mean, I was just going to say, with the exception he doesn't 
18 want you to speculate. Just say what you know. He doesn't want you to guess or 
19 speculate. But, with that said, yes. 
20 Mr. - Yeah, exactly right. Don't filter it by only what is substantial or 
21 consequential. Just, you know, we're really just looking for you to go back in your head 
22 to that meeting and share with us anything that you recall. 
23 That's all I have,■. Sorry. 
24 BY MR. 
25 Q Sure. So go back to one of the things that we just briefly mentioned, march  29 
1 to the Capitol. When did you first remember the idea that people would be marching to 
2 the Capitol on January 6th came up? 
3 A 
4 January --
5 
6 
7 Q 
A 
Q I don't remember a specific date. Probably the end of December, early 
Can you --
--something about a rally on the 6th. 
Tell us about that. Even if you don't recall the date exactly, what was the 
8 context when it first came up? 
9 A We talked about hosting a rally on the 6th. And, again, I guess I'm thinking 
10 more from the logistical standpoint right now, just because, you know, there's multiple 
11 components that go into planning a rally of this nature, especially because we were at the 
12 White House. We weren't going to an airport tarmac like we had during the campaign. 
13 So there was --we had to work with the deputy chief of staff. We had to work with, I 
14 believe, National Park Service to get the permits for the rallies. 
15 But I had no communications or correspondence to the campaign officials, but 
16 there was a number of those items that went through our office just because of 
17 Mr. Meadows' role in helping to facilitate those requests on behalf of the President and 
18 make sure that everything was streamlined so the day would be successful. But to my 
19 recollection, that didn't --or substantive conversations started happening towards the 
20 end of December. 
21 Q You mentioned the deputy chief of staff involved in this conversation. Is 
22 that Tony Ornate? 
23 
24 A 
Q Yes, sir. 
Okay. And was it a meeting where this first came up, that you recall, and, if 
25 so, who was in the meeting?  30 
1 A When it --the first time I remember it coming up would have been just 
2 passerby conversation. Mr. Ornate frequently grabbed Mr. Meadows as he would walk 
3 down the hallway, either to the Vice President's office, to the Oval Office. He was 
4 very --he likes to operate very efficiently and didn't like to take a lot of Mr. Meadows' 
5 time. So normally Mr. Ornate and I would talk, say, I think Mark will have a couple 
6 minutes right now just to talk to you about this, and Tony would just kind of grab him in 
7 the hallway. 
8 Q And give us the, I guess, your understanding of what these talks about 
9 whether people would be marching to the Capitol entailed. I mean, was it something 
10 the President wanted for the January 6th rally? 
11 A I don't believe that he was necessarily --in the beginning stages, I don't 
12 believe that it was the goal of the rally for people to march to the Capitol. I mean, if 
13 we're talking specifically about the beginning of discussions about having a rally on the 
14 6th, I don't recall that coming up. It was more the logistical planning aspects of it, how 
15 realistically --realistically speaking, how many people we could fit in the designated area, 
16 how big the overflow crowd would be, things that would be of more of an operational 
17 function or on the advance side of things, either from the campaign or the official side. 
18 And that's what discussions that I'm primarily talking about right now. 
19 Now, if we're going to touch on the marching to the Capitol information, that 
20 would come up a little bit later, not in the beginning stages of planning the rally, to my 
21 knowledge. 
22 Q Okay. And just for the record, I'd note that Ms. Cheney, a select committee 
23 member, has also joined us. 
24 
25 A Thank you. 
Ms. Cheney. Good morning, Cassidy. Thank you.  31 
Ms. Hutchinson. Thank you. 
BYMR.-1 
2 
3 Q To go back to what you just said, that it shifted from kind of beginning stages 
4 where it was more, I don't know, logistical planning, and then the issue of marching to the 
5 Capitol came up, when was that shift, do you remember? 
6 
7 
8 A 
Q 
A I don't recall --recall specifically. 
What can you tell us about the shift? 
I don't know if I'd describe it as a shift as more of a --a progression of how 
9 many people were anticipated to go and kind of what the chain of events had been from 
10 that point forward. 
11 
12 Q 
A Can you explain that a little bit more? 
I mean, in typical rally conversations that we would have, we wouldn't talk 
13 about people just leave after rallies. But they're in Washington, D.C., and there's 
14 different events going on that day, so I don't --I think you'd have to be a little bit more 
15 specific. I'm not sure exactly what --
16 Q Sure. When was the first time you remember that the President expressed 
17 an interest in having people march to the Capitol on January the 6th? 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 A 
Q Can I consult with my attorney for a moment? 
Of course. Take your time. 
Mr. Passantino. Hold on 1 second. 
[Discussion off the record.] 
Mr. Passantino. Mr.- sorry, my apologies. Could you maybe sort of 
23 rephrase the question? And again, this is from my standpoint, just so that we 
24 understand sort of the context of the scope of what you're talking about, because --and I 
25 guess my thing, I didn't say anything while you were doing it, but the notion of the sort of  32 
1 discussion of marching I think had come more from you than from her. But I want you 
2 to sort of make sure you go through and ask exactly the question so that she can answer 
3 exactly what her recollection was about that. 
4 So I didn't say anything before, but I think that there might be some confusion 
5 about sort of the time period and this progression that you're talking about. So our 
6 apologies. 
7 Mr- No, that's perfectly fine. 
8 BYM 
9 Q When was the first time you learned that the President wanted people to 
10 march to the Capitol on January the 6th? 
11 A I --if I'm --I would say the beginning of January, if not maybe December 
12 31st. He was in Florida for a period during the Christmas holiday and came back on the 
13 31st. And we were in the office that day. So that's the most that we had talked to him 
14 about that. But, again, I --there were talks about planning the rally before that period 
15 and --but the first time that I --I can't give you a specific date, if it was December 31st or 
16 January 2nd, but there were discussions about whether or not we were going to 
17 encourage people to march to the Capitol and leave the rally site to do so, if we were 
18 going to kind of --what time we were going to plan the rally, if it was going to be earlier in 
19 the morning or later in the afternoon. And that would depend --like, the movement of 
20 people would depend on that. 
21 But, again, end of December, very early January, the 1st or the 2nd, I remember 
22 the discussions of people either going to the Capitol or there being [inaudible]. 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A 
Q Can you set the scene? 
[Inaudible]. 
Oh, I'm sorry. You're breaking up a little bit.  1 
2 A 
Q No, you're fine. Do you need me to repeat anything I said? 
I think the end, if you don't mind, if you're able. Otherwise, we can just 
3 keep going. I understand that's hard to go back in time. 
4 A No. No, you're fine. Again, I --it would have been December 31st, 
5 January 1st or 2nd, just kind of discussing logistically based off the crowd sizes that we 
6 were anticipating, how many people would march to the Capitol, if anybody at all, or if 
7 we were going to kind of plan how we were going to plan the rally in order to 
8 accommodate anybody that wanted to go up there. 
9 Q Was there a particular meeting where you first remember those issues 33 
10 coming up, about whether to encourage people to go to the Capitol and the crowd size? 
11 A Not a particular meeting. I --again, with the --I'm trying to recall if there 
12 was a specific meeting that I --I remember people discussing it in meetings, but I don't 
13 know if the first time I heard of this movement happening was in a meeting or a 
14 conver---private conversation that I had with the chief of staff, or if it was Mr. Ornate 
15 talking to me about what the chief of staff's thoughts were on any of this. 
16 Q Specifically on the issue you mentioned about there's discussions of whether 
17 to encourage people to march to the Capitol, can you explain that? When do you 
18 remember that first coming up and who was involved in that discussion? 
19 A Personally, I remember it first coming up --I don't want to --I don't want to 
20 speak definitively on the very first instance I remember it coming up. But I remember 
21 the first conversation that I overheard where it would've been in a meeting setting was 
22 with Mr. Giuliani, one night he met with the chief of staff. And I believe this was on 
23 January 2nd, if that was a Saturday --I don't have a calendar in front of me --but there 
24 were discussions that evening about, you know, if we're going to start putting tweets out 
25 for people to march up to the Capitol if we hadn't already. But that's the first formal  34 
1 setting that I remember it being discussed in. 
2 Q Okay. Can you get a little bit more specific about what that conversation 
3 was, what Mr. Giuliani said, what Mr. Meadows said about that issue, whether to 
4 encourage people to march to the Capitol on January the 6th? 
5 A In that specific instance, Mr. Giuliani had met with Mr. Meadows that night. 
6 Mr. Meadows said something along the lines of, should we put --should we start putting 
7 some tweets out to encourage people to go up to the Capitol, what do you think about 
8 this, Rudy, like, the boss wants to do this. Rudy had said something along the lines of, 
9 yes, that would be great. And Mr. Meadows --again, not verbatim, but something along 
10 the lines of, all right, we'll make it happen. 
11 But these were conversations that happened --I mean, these type of 
12 conversations happened frequently. It doesn't --I'm not necessarily indicating that it 
13 was anything --that that was the moment that we started to encourage people. I'm 
14 sure that there were conversations happening before that, and I had heard Mr. Meadows 
15 talking about a movement towards the Capitol before that, but speaking specifically to a 
16 more formal instance would've been on January 2nd, that --that night. 
17 Q Thank you for clarifying that. 
18 And you were present for this meeting with Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Meadows? 
19 A I was in and out of the room. I helped facilitate --our scheduler was out 
20 then, so I helped facilitate them getting onto campus, which I normally didn't do. 
21 normally didn't --it was more of Eliza's role to formally schedule things and to work on 
22 the access to campus for principals, and she worked with people's assistants to make that 
23 happen. 
24 But she was out this week on a Christmas vacation with her family, so I was at the 
25 White House with Mr. Meadows that night. So I was in and out of the room when he  35 
1 met with Mr. Giuliani. 
2 Mr. Giuliani brought a number of other guests that night. I believe it's also in my 
3 text messages that I turned over to you all, but --
4 Q Okay. That's great. Thank you for that. 
5 You said you mentioned it --or you recall it perhaps coming up in --let me 
6 rephrase. 
7 You said that you recall this idea of whether to encourage people to march to the 
8 Capitol on January 6th came up before this potentially as well in conversations with 
9 Mr. Meadows. Do you remember anything about those conversations before January 
10 2nd? 
11 A Speaking specifically to encourage people to march to the Capitol, no, but 
12 speaking about people marching to the Capitol, yes. 
13 
14 Q 
A Okay. Perfect. Can you explain that? 
I think it --I mean, like, I guess, prior to the January 2nd meeting with 
15 Mr. Giuliani, it was more of, we anticipate people will march to the Capitol. And then I 
16 don't know specifically when the shift was of whether we were just anticipating it or if we 
17 should start encouraging people to march to the Capitol. But, you know, there were 
18 discussions, naturally, I think, that we had anticipated, you know, there's thousands of 
19 people in Washington, D.C., there's events going on at the Capitol building. It's natural, I 
20 think, to anticipate movement. I mean, people have to go somewhere. 
21 But that's the first instance that I remember people and Mr. Meadows specifically 
22 talking about if we were going to start putting out tweets and potentially having media 
23 circuits encourage people to go up to the Capitol.  1 
2 [11:08 a.m.] 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 Q 
A 
Q 
A That being on the meeting with January 2nd, you're saying? 
Correct. 
Yeah. 
And, again, that is the first instance that I recall these matters specifically 
8 being discussed in the context that we're talking about them in. 36 
9 Q Do you know why --was there anything in particular that led people to think 
10 or have the expectation that people might march to the Capitol on January the 6th? 
11 A Not to my knowledge. You know, I'm sure --I'm sure that there was either 
12 intelligence reports or people had heard about it on social media. I wasn't part of any of 
13 those discussions. I remember people talking about, either on forums --and I'm not 
14 sure. You mentioned the Donald Trump Reddit. I'm not familiar with it. But, you 
15 know, I remember people talking about on Twitter people --some of the rally spectators 
16 coming to D.C. and their plans. 
17 Again, all of that was publicly available. I just remember the shift of whether or 
18 not you're just anticipating it and if you're going to encourage it happening on 
19 January 2nd. 
20 Q When you say you remember this coming up in forums and on the internet, 
21 is that what you personally saw, or was that being discussed within the White House? 
22 Mr. Passantino. So he anticipated where I was going to go. He just wants to 
23 know what you know, not speculation. 
24 Ms. Hutchinson. No. And, again, I remember Mr. Meadows talking about he 
25 had --Mr. Meadows had people reaching out to him all the time, and I had his cell phone  37 
1 a lot of the time because he would be in meetings. So he had, in casual conversation, 
2 said: Oh, we're going to have this big rally. People are talking about it on social media. 
3 They're going to go up to the Capitol. Are you seeing any of this on Twitter? 
4 And, as I previously stated, I don't frequently use social media, especially in my 
5 light of my job there, in my role with Mr. Meadows. So I didn't have any insight or 
6 anything to add to that conversation. But, you know, I know that he had heard 
7 passer-by conversation either through word of mouth from people that would reach out 
8 to him or information he had seen on line, but that's the extent of the outreach that I had 
9 with him about that matter. 
10 BYMR.-: 
11 Q When Mr. Meadows talked about some of the stuff that he had seen on line 
12 or in talking to other people, did he ever express any concerns about what might happen 
13 on January the 6th? 
14 A Not to my recollection. Um, not to my recollection right now, but I --in 
15 terms of marching to the Capitol, not to my recollection. 
16 Q Or just violence generally on January the 6th, even if unrelated to marching 
17 to the Capitol? 
18 A I know that there were concerns brought forward to Mr. Meadows. I don't 
19 know --I don't want to speculate whether or not he perceived them as genuine concerns, 
20 but I know that people had brought information forward to him that had indicated that 
21 there could be violence on the 6th. But, again, I'm not sure if he --what he did with that 
22 information internally. 
23 Q Who brought that information to him about the potential for violence on the 
24 6th? 
25 A I remember Mr. Ornate had talked to him about intelligence reports.  38 
1 mean, I'm trying to be a little cognizant of --like the situation here because of, like, 
2 intelligence reports that were available at the time. 
3 Mr. Passantino. Yeah, I don't think he wants you to talk about anything you 
4 believe to be classified. When you're using intelligence, like, there's two different kinds. 
5 Right. Could be sort of ground chatter, and then there could be something you know to 
6 be classified. They do not want you to be --
7 Ms. Hutchinson. No, I don't know if this is classified or not. I just remember 
8 Mr. Ornate coming in and saying that we had intel reports saying that there could 
9 potentially be violence on the 6th. And Mr. Meadows said: All right. Let's talk about 
10 it. 
11 And I believe they went to the office for maybe 5 minutes. It was very quick. 
12 Mr. Ornate had stopped him as he was walking out one night to talk about this and --
13 BYMR-
14 Q Can I stop you there, Ms. Hutchinson? When was that, if you recall, 
15 date-wise? 
16 A Had to be early January because Mr. Ornate was not --I don't believe he 
17 came back until January 2nd or 3rd from Christmas. 
18 Q Do you think it was before or after the meeting on January 2nd with Rudy 
19 Giuliani? 
20 A Likely after because I believe the 2nd was a Saturday. Again, I don't have 
21 the calendar in front of me. And I believe that Mr. Ornato's first day back was that 
22 Monday. 
23 
24 
25 Mr. - Very helpful. 
And I see, Ms. Cheney, you have turned on your camera. 
Ms. Cheney. Yes. Thanks, - 39 
1 Could you just tell us, back on the meeting on the 2nd, Ms. Hutchinson, why did 
2 Mr. Meadows and Mr. Giuliani want to encourage people to go to the Capitol? 
3 Ms. Hutchinson. I'm not sure it was so much that they wanted to encourage 
4 people to go to the Capitol or if it was an idea that had been started --that people had 
5 started to float around. 
6 You know, I don't want to speculate on Mr. Meadows' intentions with it, just --I'm 
7 not sure of his insight and what was going on inside of his head at that time. But, you 
8 know, I --knowing Mr. Giuliani and his relationship with the President, I think that Mr. 
9 Meadows had --it had been brought forward to Mr. --the idea had been brought forward 
10 to Mr. Meadows at that time, and knowing his relationship --Mr. Giulian i's relationship 
11 with the President, he wanted his insight about what he should encourage or kind of 
12 backtrack on in case Mr. Giuliani didn't perceive it as a good idea for the President to 
13 engage in. 
14 Ms. Cheney. Okay. So you mentioned that the President had --or that Mr. 
15 Meadows said to Mr. Giuliani that the boss wanted to put some tweets out, and they 
16 were discussing this idea. And I think you said there was a shift from sort of, you know, 
17 the idea that people --it was becoming clear people might be going, but then this 
18 meeting on the 2nd, there was a shift. 
19 And so I was trying to get a sense of some more detail on that meeting about the 
20 shift itself and why Mr. Meadows thought that the boss wanted people to go to the 
21 Capitol. 
22 
23 you. 
24 
25 Ms. Hutchinson. Um, can I consult with my attorney for a moment? Thank 
Ms. Cheney. Sure. 
[Discussion off the record.]  1 
2 Mr. Passantino. Thank you for letting us do that. 
And I apologize we were doing that question back and forth. Do you mind 40 
3 asking --and, again, sort of part of the issue was I don't know that she necessarily said 
4 that there was necessarily a shift. I just want to make sure that we're getting sort of her 
5 recollection on what things happened. 
6 But, with that, certainly take it in whatever direction you wanted to do. We 
7 apologize for that. 
8 Ms. Cheney. Sure. 
9 So, in terms of the meeting on the 2nd, the --maybe just tell us about the 
10 discussion that you heard between Mr. Meadows and Mr. Giuliani about the possibility of 
11 tweets and encouraging people to go to the Capitol. 
12 Ms. Hutchinson. There was a phone call that evening with members of the 
13 House Freedom Caucus, and, you know, they had discussed plans for the rally, plans for 
14 the 6th. And I remember, after that call --again, I don't remember who was present in 
15 that room. I think it was in my text messages, although I'm not entirely certain. But I 
16 wasn't present for the entire phone call. I was in and out of the room a little bit. And I 
17 just remember after the phone call had ended was when Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Meadows 
18 had this discussion about whether or not the President should put out tweets. 
19 But the context of the phone call --again, I was in and out of the room --Members 
20 had chimed in about whether people should start putting out tweets to encourage people 
21 to go to the Capitol that day. And that's the first time I remember the chief of staff 
22 having a more --I don't want to say a formal discussion, but having a discussion with 
23 somebody else that was close to the President about how we should approach it on our 
24 side. 
25 Ms. Cheney. Okay. Thank you.  1 
2 Q BYMR.-
I just want to make sure --sorry,. 
3 I just want to make sure I accurately recall what you said earlier about the 
4 conversation between Mr. Meadows and Mr. Giuliani. 
5 It sounds like you said that Mr. Meadows conveyed something about the boss 
6 wants to do this, "this" being send out tweets to encourage people to go. 
7 Is that right? 
8 
9 A 
Q Yes. 
Was it sort of Mr. Meadows asking Mr. Giuliani for advice about that or to 
10 confirm that, in Mr. Giulian i's view, doing that, promoting this idea of marching to the 
11 Capitol would be a good idea? 
12 A Basically Meadows respected the relationship that Mr. Trump and Mr. 
13 Giuliani had built over the years, and I believe that he just wanted to respect the 
14 boundaries of their relationship. And he frequently would consult with Mr. Giuliani 41 
15 about ideas that the President would have just because of the relationship that they also 
16 had and just make sure that they were on the same page and there was no 
17 miscommunications. 
18 Q I see. So sort of: Hey, the boss wants to do this, Mr. Rudy, what do you 
19 think? That kind of --that was sort of the tone of this meeting on the 2nd? 
20 A Correct. 
21 Q And that, Ms. Hutchinson, sounds like was not uncommon that Mr. 
22 Meadows would ask Mr. Giuliani on other occasions for his view on something that the 
23 President had expressed interest in? 
24 
25 A 
Q That's correct. 
Okay. And then, on the 2nd, it sounds like you said Mr. Giuliani agreed that  42 
1 this was a good idea, that some tweets to promote marching to the Capitol would be a 
2 good idea or would be consistent with what he was doing, "he" Giuliani? 
A That's correct. 
Mr. Okay. Thank you. 
BYMR.-3 
4 
5 
6 Q To elaborate on that, what's your understanding from that meeting or others 
7 of the purpose of marching to the Capitol on January the 6th? 
8 A I'm not sure specifically, other than, you know, just to have a crowd present 
9 for the purposes of what the rally was for that day, was just to, you know, have patriotic 
10 discussions about the electoral count that was happening at the Capitol that day. 
11 Q So is your understanding from being in that meeting with Mr. Giuliani or Mr. 
12 Meadows or talking to Mr. Meadows that it had to do with the Joint Session on January 
13 the 6th, Congress counting the electoral votes? 
14 
15 A 
Q That's correct. 
You mentioned earlier there was discussion about timing, when to time this 
16 rally on January the 6th. Can you explain that a little bit more? 
17 A Um, yeah. I think, again, that's more from, like, a logistical standpoint, 
18 what time that the permits would be active for, if we had anticipated there being a 
19 number of free rally speakers like we had at other rallies, or if it was going to be --if 
20 anybody was going to headline the President, and if somebody was going to headline the 
21 President, then what time we realistically thought he would be able to get out there for. 
22 So any of those timing discussions that I was privy to were just for logistical planning 
23 purposes. 
24 Q Was there any discussion about a need to do it in the morning versus the 
25 afternoon for any strategic reasons?  43 
1 A Strategicwise, I think --you know, I don't want to speculate or hypothesize 
2 on my response to this, but I just think that naturally it fell --1 don't think it was ever even 
3 discussed to have it in the afternoon. I think maybe at one point it was discussed by 
4 noon or 1 p.m., but the entire time that we had started planning the rally, we kind of 
5 were on the side of it was going to happen earlier in the morning. Whether that was 
6 going to happen at 9:30 or 11 a.m. or 10:30 was, like, kind of the window we were more 
7 specifically looking at because --yeah. 
8 Q Let me ask it this way. 
9 Was there discussions about it needing to happen before the Joint Session started 
10 at 1 p.m. on January the 6th? 
11 
12 A 
Q Not to my recollection right now. 
And, going back to the discussion with Mr. Giuliani, do you remember others 
13 being there? 
14 And the reason I ask is --maybe we should just bring up exhibit 25, page 25. 
15 
16 
17 
18 This is your text message with Ms. Eliza Thurston, I believe. Is that her name? 
A 
Q Yeah, that's correct. That's her name. 
Okay. 
All right. So, as that's coming up, there's a reference to kind of arranging parking 
19 and getting Rudy and others cleared through the White House. And it says --all right. 
20 We've got it up on the screen. Excuse me. I don't know if you can see that. 
21 
22 
23 It says: Parking just came through, Ms. Thurston said. 
And then you say: Lindsey is here, just waiting on Rudy. 
Do you remember who that Lindsey is that you're referring to? And this is a 
24 message from January 2nd, to be clear. 
25 Mr. Passantino. If you don't mind, just give us, like, 30 more seconds --or 5  1 more seconds to find it just so she's looking at the context here. 
2 Mr- Of course. 
3 
4 
5 
6 Mr. Passantino. We're trying to catch up. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Is that the top of the -­
Mr. Passantino. Is this page 25 of the --
Mr. - On our exhibit, it's page 25. It's a message from January 2nd 
7 around, maybe, 2 or 3 o'clock, as best I can tell from the time stamp. 44 
8 Ms. Hutchinson. I'm sorry, can you --the Lindsey --was your question about the 
9 Lindsey I was referring to? 
10 BYMR-
11 
12 
13 Q 
A 
Q Correct. 
That would have been Senator Lindsey Graham. 
Was Senator Graham in the discussion with Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Meadows 
14 that you had discussed about the march to the Capitol? 
15 A Mr. Graham had left the White House at that point. So we commenced the 
16 meeting earlier that evening with Mr. Giuliani, Mr. Meadows, Senator Graham, and a 
17 couple of Mr. Giuliani's guests. That was a separate meeting. 
18 And then Mr. --or Senator Graham had left, and they had started the call around 6 
19 p.m., maybe 6:05, 6:10, that evening. 
20 So Senator Graham was not present for the phone conversation with Members of 
21 Congress. 
22 
23 Q I see. 
Okay. And this discussion about whether to encourage people to march to the 
24 Capitol, was that done on this call, the House Freedom Caucus call? 
25 A Correct, I'm not sure --I don't believe. I was not in the meeting with  45 
1 Senator Graham. I had gone in a couple of times, just like for documents that Mark had 
2 asked me to print out, but I was not in there for any substantive conversation about 
3 anything pertaining to the Capitol. 
4 Now, Mr. Graham was invited to stay for that phone call, but he had just flown in, 
5 and he wanted to go home. 
6 Q Do you remember what any of the other Members who were on that call 
7 said when this issue of whether to encourage people to march to the Capitol came up? 
8 A That was, I think, ordinary banter, people offering their ideas. Nothing that 
9 was --would raise any flags or relating to [inaudible]. I think that the Members that 
10 were present on that call were more inclined to go with White House guidance and shoot 
11 around their own ideas. 
12 I remember Mr. Perry had said that he had been starting to put tweets that night, 
13 Congressman Perry, that he was going to start putting out tweets that night, and he was a 
14 primary participant in the call. I remember him speaking up a lot. 
15 I wasn't in the room for the entire duration of the call, but when I had ducked in, it 
16 was either somebody on our end speaking or it was Mr. Perry. I know other Members 
17 had chimed in at points, but I wasn't there when they had introduced themselves. 
18 Q Did Mr. Perry support the idea of sending people to the Capitol on 
19 January the 6th? 
20 
21 A 
Q He did. 
Did anybody on the call that you remember disagree with the idea of 
22 encouraging people to march to the Capitol on January 6th? 
23 A Not that I recall. 
24 Q Do you remember anybody else on that call who specifically supported the 
25 idea of encouraging people to march to the Capitol on January 6th?  46 
1 A I don't think there's a participant on the call that had necessarily discouraged 
2 the idea. I wasn't present for the entire duration of the call, so I'm not sure if there was 
3 anybody that had expressed any concern, but I also don't know if everybody was 
4 necessarily encouraging it. 
5 
6 Q Fair enough. 
Now, one of the things, just to --this is going to be kind of a long question. But 
7 one of the things that had been discussed around that time is having the Joint Session of 
8 Congress either delayed so that States could take up the issue of the election or just 
9 prevent it from happening on January the 6th at all. 
10 Was that delay or idea of preventing the Joint Session from going forward on 
11 January 6th a topic that came up in this meeting with Rudy Giuliani and Mr. Meadows? 
12 
13 A 
Q Not that I was present for. 
Okay. Do you remember it coming up in the call with the House Freedom 
14 Caucus members, to the extent that that was any different? 
15 A Not specifically on the call, no. Again, I was in and out of the room. No. 
16 Mr- Okay. I'll stop there and see if anybody else has any questions, 
17 any members, including the room. 
18 BY MS. 
19 Q Ms. Hutchinson, just a quick question. 
20 I think you mentioned something that it was your perception that the Members 
21 on the call with the House Freedom Caucus, they were inclined to go along with the 
22 White House guidance. And I was just wondering, what did you understand the White 
23 House guidance to be on this issue? 
24 A You know, during the time of this call, the call was --we had --the call was 
25 underway because we were talking about events on the 6th. So I believe it was more of  47 
1 an update call just about what we were anticipating. Any strategies that had been 
2 discussed, I wasn't involved for any, you know, strategic discussions. You know, I had 
3 overheard discussions about what he had anticipated just by nature of, like, the logistical 
4 aspects of what I was doing for them at the time. But there wasn't anything that stood 
5 out to me as anything that would be a specific answer to your question that had 
6 happened on that call that night. 
7 Q So you mentioned, like, Representative Perry saying that he would put out 
8 some tweets. Do you recall if that was something he just offered on his own or 
9 someone had said, "Hey, would anyone, you know, want to put out some tweets about 
10 marching"? 
11 A It was more --I understood it as more of him offering his support and 
12 helping in any way that he could. 
13 Q But this was after it had already been raised about putting it out there about 
14 encouraging people to march to the Capitol? 
15 
16 A 
Q As a topic of conversation on the call, yes. 
Do you recall anyone --any other Members saying that they wouldn't 
17 encourage people to march to the Capitol on the 6th? 
18 A No. I mean, I don't recall every single participant on the call that night, but 
19 I do recall it was a Freedom Caucus call. But, again, I was present primarily when it was 
20 Mr. Meadows speaking, Mr. Giuliani speaking, and I remember going in when Mr. Perry 
21 had spoken. You know, Mr. Jordan had chimed in a few times I remember, but it wasn't 
22 anything substantive in terms of putting tweets out. It was more of he was one of the 
23 lead participants on the call. So he was kind of facilitating the call more from the aspect 
24 of I have Mr. Babin in line to have --he has a comment to say next. But that was --I 
25 don't recall any other Members specifically chiming in on that idea other than Mr. Perry.  48 
1 Q I think you had mentioned that Mr. Giuliani had some guests with him. Is 
2 that right? 
3 A He did. I don't remember who. I don't think it's in my text messages with 
4 Eliza that evening. I don't recall specifically who he brought to that meeting that night. 
5 Q Do you remember if they were men or women or how many? 
6 A Maybe four or five individuals. There was one woman --I forget her name, 
7 but I don't recall anybody else that he brought that night. 
8 Q Do you remember the name Jenna Ellis that could have been his guest, one 
9 of them? 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A Jenna wasn't there that night. 
Okay. How about Sidney Powell? 
Sidney was not there that night. 
Christina Bobb? 
This was a --
Excuse me. Christina Bobb? 
It potentially could have --I don't remember if it was her or not. The name 
17 sounds familiar, and that's --Christina or Katherine maybe. 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A Katherine Friess or Freiss? 
I believe that was her. 
Mr. Passantino. Just be clear what you actually know. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah. 
Mr. Passantino. Be careful that you're limiting to what you know. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah. 
Mr. Passantino. But, with that, certainly. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah. I don't know if you all have any records of who came in  1 and out, if that's been released to you all, but I don't --I can't speak definitively to it. 
2 But it wasn't any of the aforementioned names before. Yeah. 
3 
4 
5 
6 Q 
A 
Q MS. 
Do you recall --
If I recall something about that, I will let you know. 
No, we appreciate that. Thank you. 
7 Do you recall if all of those guests had been, like, prescheduled or if any of them 
8 were impromptu, unscheduled guests for Mr. Giuliani? 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 A I don't remember. 
Q Okay. 
A I don't remember. 
Q Okay. Do you recall if someone named John Eastman was there? 
A 
Q 
A He was not at the meeting that night. 
No? 
He was not at the meeting that night. 
Ms.- All right. Thank you. 
Mr.- All right. So I want to move now to January 6th. 
Ms. Cheney. Hey,., I'm sorry. Just one question before that. 
Mr. - Go ahead. 
Ms. Cheney. Ms. Hutchinson, in terms of the call with the House Freedom 
21 Caucus members, did Mr. Perry say why he wanted people to march to the Capitol? 
22 
23 Ms. Hutchinson. No, he didn't, not that I was present for. 
Ms. Cheney. And, in terms of the other topics discussed on that call, can you 
24 walk through some of the other recollections you had about the topics on the call? 
25 Ms. Hutchinson. Specifically, no. It was all pertaining to events on the 6th, 49  50 
1 though. There were --I don't want to --I'm not trying to be unhelpful. I just --there 
2 were calls happening frequently. And, you know, I --I'm trying my best to remember 
3 from that specific call, but I don't recall any --I don't recall overhearing anything 
4 specifically on that subject matter, just what I've already said about whether or not 
5 certain members were going to --if they thought it was a good idea to start putting 
6 tweets out, if we thought it was a good idea for them to, if we wanted to encourage them 
7 to, just to kind of get the message out there at that point. 
8 Ms. Cheney. And so in any --you said there were frequent discussions about 
9 this. Can you give us a sense of --perhaps it wasn't just on that call but in any other calls 
10 or discussions the comments from the Members about what they anticipated or what 
11 they wanted you or Mr. Meadows or the President to do with respect to the 6th? 
12 Ms. Hutchinson. What I recall right now about that would just be --you know, I 
13 would get messages or calls from Members as long it was them --if they had sent a tweet 
14 out on their official Twitter, on their campaign Twitter, I don't remember which one it 
15 would have been --can the President retweet this? I'll be there. I'm on his team type 
16 of conversation. 
17 But in terms of anything more specific to, like, a strategic standpoint, I wasn't 
18 privy to any of those conversations that I can recall at this moment. 
19 Ms. Cheney. Okay. And I assume you produced to us any of those text 
20 messages or other materials that you received from Members? 
21 Ms. Hutchinson. Correct. I produced everything that I have on my personal 
22 device that was responsive to the subpoena. And, you know, there's --my work phone 
23 is active too, so it would have been on my call records from my work phone. 
24 Ms. Cheney. All right. And those --I assume you have turned everything over 
25 to the archives from your work phone or your personal phone?  51 
1 Ms. Hutchinson. For the work phone, yes. That was naturally turned over at 
2 the end of the administration. 
3 Ms. Cheney. Okay. And then, from your personal phone, have you turned 
4 those over to the archives as well? 
5 Mr. Passantino. Representative Cheney, this is Stefan Passantino. 
6 Yeah, we are --I think the [inaudible] that even here might not even be PRA, but 
7 we are working actively with the archives to ensure that everything that could potentially 
8 have not been turned over is being turned over. But I'm only hesitating in saying that 
9 because a lot of the things that are coming to her from work devices are already 
10 captured. So we're just working to ensure --but we are working to ensure that 
11 everything that you all have is also going to be in the possession of the archives. 
12 Ms. Cheney. Okay. Thank you. 
13 BYMR.-
14 Q Before we leave this topic, Ms. Hutchinson, was there anyone else that you 
15 remember that encouraged a march to the Capitol on January the 6th? 
16 
17 
18 A 
Q 
A Related specifically to this meeting? 
Just generally. 
Um, I don't think anything that I haven't already previously covered. You 
19 know, there was conversations happening frequently between staff and the West Wing, 
20 but, again, just more of efforts just to coordinate and what people were hearing. It was 
21 typical workplace conversation, especially given the time and circumstances that we were 
22 working under. But there wasn't anything more --now, again, if I recall anything else, 
23 I'm happy to let you all know, but nothing --or nobody that I haven't already previously 
24 mentioned or named. 
25 Now, there were discussions between, like, I and other Members reach out at  52 
1 various points of what we were anticipating, but, you know, nothing --nothing more 
2 specific to anything in the scope of the question you're currently asking. 
Q Okay. 3 
4 In those conversations, I know you mentioned that Mr. Meadows raised with Mr. 
5 Ornate or they discussed at some point the potential for violence on the 6th. Did 
6 anybody else raise concerns about potential violence on January the 6th before the 6th? 
7 
8 A 
Q Not --not that I can specifically recall right now, no. 
Are you aware of a call earlier on the day of January the 2nd where the 
9 President and others spoke with State legislators and Members of Congress and 
10 encouraged the State legislators, essentially, that they're the ones who had the power in 
11 this process and to kind of take the election back and look at various allegations of fraud? 
12 Are you aware of that call? 
13 A Do you have specifics, like which States were involved in that call? 
14 Q It's been reported that there's maybe up to 300 members of this call. John 
15 Eastman was on the call. I believe Mark Martin was on the call with Phil Klein, the 
16 President, Rudy Giuliani. 
17 A Um, I don't have any details to add to that. I don't specifically recall that 
18 call right now. 
19 
20 
21 Q 
A 
Q Okay. 
Yeah. I think I'm --yeah. 
Okay. And just to go back and put a finer point on one of the questions I 
22 asked earlier, which may not have been perfectly precise. One of the things that came 
23 up in that call is returning the election to State legislatures, and that is something that 
24 Mr. Giuliani has been publicly reported to be interested in. 
25 So, in this meeting on January the 2nd and the phone call with the House Freedom  53 
1 Caucus, did anybody express the view that marching to the Capitol would be a way to 
2 encourage Congress to send the electoral college vote back to the States? 
3 A That was an idea that was discussed. Whether or not people were 
4 encouraging it, I don't have insight into that, but that was a matter that was discussed 
5 fairly thoroughly at that time. 
6 Q Can you explain more about that, specifically in relation to the march on the 
7 Capitol or encouraging a march on the Capitol? 
8 A No. I think that that would be a question better suited for Mr. Meadows to 
9 answer. Any insight that I had on that would have just been kind of what I've already 
10 said. There was conversations that were happening. There were ideas being thrown 
11 around. There were potential surrogates being discussed in terms of who would be 
12 appropriate to talk to about a matter like that. 
13 But I don't have any tailored information to add to your question in terms of, you 
14 know, like what we had anticipated or the point that Mr. Meadows wanted to handle that 
15 or thought it was best to handle that on behalf of the President. 
16 Q And I'm sorry. You broke up there. Do you mind repeating what you just 
17 said? 
18 A Yes --no, I don't. 
19 You know, I --just to be short with it, I don't have anything specific to add. 
20 think that would be a question better suited for Mr. Meadows to answer. You know, 
21 whatever I stated about --you know, like there were discussions happening. There were 
22 conversations happening frequently in this time period. 
23 But in terms of anything substantive or strategic, I wasn't privy to those 
24 conversations. It was more of what had already been discussed or ideas that were being 
25 floated around. And, you know, any insight that I had was either from Mr. Meadows in  54 
1 casual conversation with him or, you know, just like overhearing the purpose of the 
2 meeting and, like, ducking in and out as the meetings were underway. 
3 Q Okay. But was it your understanding that marching was one way to 
4 encourage the Joint Session of Congress to send the electoral count back to the States? 
5 A That was an aspect that was certainly known. Whether or not Mr. 
6 Meadows wanted to encourage it, I'm not sure. You would have to ask him. 
7 Q Okay. And do you know the President's views on encouraging 
8 Members --or excuse me, people to march to the Capitol on January the 6th? 
9 A I know it's already publicly available, which was he put tweets out 
10 encouraging people to march to the Capitol, which I believe is a clear indication that he 
11 wanted to encourage people to march to the Capitol that day. 
12 Q What about in the context of this January 2nd meeting with Mr. Meadows 
13 and Giuliani? Were you aware of the President's views at that time? 
14 A Yes. And that is why I had previously stated about how Mr. Trump wanted 
15 to put tweets out and Mr. Meadows had asked Rudy --or Mr. Giuliani if that was a good 
16 idea, if that was something that we should move forward doing. 
17 Q All right. So I do want to go to January the 6th. What time did you get to 
18 work that day? 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 A 
Q 
A 
Q Around 9 o'clock, maybe 9:15. I picked my colleague up around 8:30, 8:45. 
And did you go right to your office in the West Wing? 
Yes. After I parked, but yes. 
Fair enough. 
Who is the person you picked up, by the way? 
A Her name is Liz Fortney (ph), Elizabeth Fortney (ph). 
Q Did you speak to Mr. Meadows that morning?  55 
1 A Briefly him and I had a conversation, just me reconfirming that he was going 
2 to go down to the rally. I wanted to make sure that his cars were in the motorcade, and 
3 then he went back into his office. I mean, there were people in and out of his office that 
4 morning. I sat there for probably an hour or so, maybe 45 minutes. And then I went 
5 over to the Eisenhower Building and met with his Secret Service detail to make sure that 
6 we had the correct motorcade rolled out for him and to accommodate him going down to 
7 the Capitol that day --or going down to the Ellipse rally that day. Sorry. 
8 Q And you said you were sitting in Mr. Meadows' office that morning for about 
9 an hour? Is that what you said? 
10 A The Chief of Staff Office, again, if we're being specific to the layout, you walk 
11 in, and there's the main office, as you would in a congressional office, and then off to the 
12 side was his office, which oftentimes the door was shut. 
13 So, when I had gotten there, I waited for the meeting participants to leave. 
14 went in and discussed reconfirming that he was going to go down to the rally, wanted to 
15 be present for it. And that was pretty much the extent of our conversations that day. 
16 He had asked if I had heard from any Members, and at that point, I don't believe that I 
17 had. I don't have any records of that on my cell phone, my personal cell phone. So 
18 anything I would have had would have gone through my work phone, which it wouldn't 
19 be out of the ordinary for Members to reach out to me on my work phone, but --so it 
20 was just a very --maybe a 3-minute conversation, and then he --somebody else came in 
21 to meet with him that morning before I left the office, his personal office, and went back 
22 out to the main office where my desk was. 
23 
24 Q Okay. 
There was discussions about whether you had heard from members. And was 
25 that based on --I'm sorry. Go ahead.  56 
1 Mr. Passantino. I'm sorry. I apologize. My apologies. 
2 I just want it to be clear on the record because we talked about the Chief of Staff 
3 Office, and I think you all cleared it up. But if you guys can make sure you're speaking 
4 the same language about his personal office versus the Office of the Chief of Staff? 
5 Ms. Hutchinson. Yes. The Chief of Staff Main Office, which is where I was, and 
6 then there's his personal office, which has a door. And the Chief of Staff's Office is a 
7 SCIF. So it's a soundproof room, not entirely soundproof, but for the most part, it's 
8 soundproof. So when you shut the door, you can't hear --you can't hear anything 
9 happening in there. 
10 BYMR.-
11 
12 Q 
A Understood. 
When he would have meetings, he would go in and have the door shut, and 
13 when he was free, he would open it up. 
14 Q Understood. Thank you. 
15 When Mr. Meadows is asking about whether you had heard from Members that 
16 morning, was it --I mean, were you tasked with tracking like who's going to object during 
17 the Joint Session? Was it that, or was it something else? 
18 A No. It was --again, that part of the conversation was more casual in 
19 nature. He knew that, because of my role and what he designated me with, he --I was 
20 more of a proxy with a Member sometimes with him, where if they couldn't get a hold of 
21 him, they would reach out to me. And so he had asked me, as he didn't have his phones 
22 on him that morning. They were outside the office. When he was in his personal 
23 office, he didn't frequently have cell phones. 
24 So he had asked if I had heard from anybody that morning. I don't recall if I had. 
25 I don't have anything on my personal phone from any correspondence with Members of  57 
1 Congress that morning. And that was pretty much how our conversation ended. 
2 Whether or not I said, "Yeah, I heard from so and so," that would have been on 
3 my work phone. But somebody else had come in to meet with him, so I had left his 
4 personal office and gone back out to the main office. 
5 Q Did the issue of a march to the Capitol come up in your discussions with Mr. 
6 Meadows that morning before the rally on the Ellipse? 
A 
Q Not that morning. 
All right. 7 
8 
9 If you can pull up exhibit No. 2, please. This is the President's daily diary for 
10 January the 6th. 
11 And if you can go to --there's an entry at 9:03 a.m. for a 4-minute call that the 
12 President had with Mr. Meadows. 
13 Did Mr. Meadows tell you what he spoke to the President about that morning of 
14 January 6th? 
15 A I'm trying to --would it --so I'm trying to decipher if it would have been the 
16 R or P because Mr. Meadows' name is mentioned twice on there. 
17 Q Yeah. So I can be clear. I can help --or offer my understanding of this. 
18 The 9:02 --or excuse me --8:56, the President places a call requesting a call to Mr. 
19 Meadows, and then, at 9:03, where that R entry is, the President received a call and 
20 spoke with Mr. Meadows. 
21 A Okay. No. Mr. --at that time, Mr. Meadows hadn't --he hadn't said 
22 anything that him and the President had spoken about specifically that morning. 
23 Q Do you know whether Mr. Meadows had been in touch with the organizers 
24 of the rally on January the 6th, including Katrina Pierson? 
25 A Mr. Meadows was in touch with a number of officials that were working on  58 
1 planning the rally. I can't speak specifically to every single one of them. I'm not sure 
2 Katrina was one of them, but he was in communication with people on the campaign side 
3 of the operations about rally planning for that day. 
4 
5 Q 
A Do you know why he was in touch with them about rally planning? 
I think just as a --he was in touch with them about rally planning just as a 
6 surrogate for the President. The President is notoriously known to make his own phone 
7 calls, but, obviously, he's the President of the United States, and his band --he only has so 
8 much bandwidth. So, you know, Mr. Meadows was present for many of these 
9 conversations, and a lot of them were either followups or kind of executing on ideas that 
10 he knew were being discussed internally and on the campaign side, so just like the 
11 primary facilitator and liaison between the White House and those planning the rally. 
12 Q Do you know if he had any concerns about the rally or particular speakers at 
13 the rally? 
14 A Um, concerns, I'm not aware. He did have insight and opinions on who 
15 should be speaking, how many people should be speaking, what we should plan for. 
16 But, you know, I don't want to categorically define that as a concern, if that makes any 
17 sense. 
18 Q Was there anybody that Mr. Meadows or the President didn't want to speak 
19 at the rally on January 6th? 
20 
21 
22 
23 A Not to my recollection. 
Mr. Passantino. Mr. can I interrupt for just a pure logistics question? 
Mr.- Yeah. 
Mr. Passantino. And only because we've just been going for about 2 hours, and I 
24 know we're probably coming up on lunch. And I want to make sure we're tracking for 
25 you. I don't want to interrupt your flow here, but at the same time, if we need to, like,  59 
1 order sandwiches, I just want to make sure we're on track and with respect to, like, taking 
2 a break or whatever. I just want to make sure we're on the same page with you as far as 
3 your timing. 
4 Mr- Sure, of course. We can take a break whenever you would like. 
5 anticipate going all day with Ms. Hutchinson. So, whenever you would like to break for 
6 lunch or take a break otherwise, that's perfectly fine with us. 
7 Mr. Passantino. Yeah. And I didn't mean to --you're right in the middle. 
8 meant to say it right as you were saying "starting January 6th" so that I kind of hit a 
9 natural breaking point, and I missed my window. So I don't want to be --if you're right 
10 in the middle of something, we can go another 5 or 10 minutes. I'm not trying to stop 
11 you, but just so we know like what your schedule is so I can order some sandwiches, 
12 whatever we need to do here. 
13 But I know I would like to take a break at some point soon, even if it's just a 
14 10-minute rest room, and then whatever you want to do, but I would want --
15 Mr. - If you're able, maybe we can take a 10-minute break now --5-or 
16 10-minute break now, and then we'll reconvene until a longer break for lunch, maybe 
17 12:45 or 1, and then proceed after that. Does that work? 
18 Mr. Passantino. Yeah, that will work for us. 
19 And then I assume you only want to take, like, a half hour or 45-minute break so 
20 that we should order sandwiches or something? 
21 M- That would be great. The shorter we can keep the breaks, the 
22 better on our end, but we're willing to do whatever you guys want. 
23 Mr. Passantino. All right. Well, then, if it's okay for you to indulge me, maybe 
24 let's just break from now until noon, so that's like 8, 9 minutes. 
25 Mr- Of course.  1 Mr. Passantino. And that will give us time to order some food. We'll plan on 
2 something like a 12:45 lunch break. 
3 
4 
5 Mr.- That sounds great. And let's go off the record. 
[Recess.] 
Mr.- Great. Let's go back on the record. 
6 It is 12:02, and we are resuming the transcribed interview of Ms. Cassidy 
7 Hutchinson. 
9 Q I'm going to bring up exhibit No. 2, please, page 2, and this is an 11:11 a.m. 
10 entry on the President's daily diary showing a meeting with Donald Trump, Jr., Eric 
11 Trump, lvanka Trump, Lara Trump, Kimberly Guilfoyle, Stephen Miller in the Oval --and 
12 we understand this happened in the Oval Office. 
13 Are you aware of this meeting from January 6th in the Oval Office? 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A I was. 
Were you in that meeting? 
I was not. 
Okay. How did you learn about this meeting? 
We were expecting --I believe, as my text messages provide from that 
19 morning, but the motorcade was slightly delayed that morning, so I was communicating 60 
20 with her. I was out on West Executive Avenue with Mr. Meadows' Secret Service detail 
21 preparing for them all to come down, and I was communicating with Ms. Thurston 
22 about --just doing, like, gentle status checks about timing, when we could expect him to 
23 come down, if he was coming separate from the President. And she had said that they 
24 were all meeting in the Oval Office that morning or at that time, around that time. 
25 Q Was Mr. Meadows in that meeting?  61 
1 A I'm not sure. I was not in the West Wing at that time. 
2 Q Did you ever learn about what happened in that meeting, what was said? 
3 A Not to my recollection, other than knowing, generally speaking, it was about 
4 the rally. But I don't know any specifics --any specifics that came out of any --any 
5 specific information that came out of that meeting. 
6 Q Did you ever learn from speaking with Mr. Meadows or anybody else in the 
7 White House that the President placed a call to the Vice President that morning? 
8 
9 A 
Q Can you repeat the question one more time, please? 
Sure. 
10 Did you ever learn from speaking with Mr. Meadows or anybody else in the White 
11 House that the President had placed a call to the Vice President the morning of 
12 January the 6th? 
13 A Yes, Mr. Meadows had spoken about it, nothing specific about it, just that he 
14 was going to call --he was trying to get a hold of the Vice President. 
15 Q Did he ever tell you what happened when the President spoke to the Vice 
16 President that morning? 
17 
18 
19 
20 A 
Q No. Him and I didn't have discussion about that in the morning. 
Did anybody --I'm sorry. 
Did anybody tell you what happened in that call? 
A Not that morning, no, nothing specifically. There was discussions about it 
21 as we got down to the Ellipse, but not --nothing specifically, just that he had talked to the 
22 Vice President about the electoral count happening on Capitol Hill that morning. But, 
23 again, there isn't any more specific information I could add to that. 
24 Q Okay. You said those discussions happened on the way to the Ellipse. 
25 Who was involved in those discussions on the way to the Ellipse?  62 
1 A It was at the Ellipse rally in the offstage announce tent behind the main 
2 stage. I don't recall specifically who was an active participant in the call --or in that 
3 discussion. I know that it was being discussed. I remember Mr. Meadows having 
4 discussions about that, but --I mean, it's a small tent, and there was a lot of people 
5 around, so I can't specifically name the participants of those conversations at this time. 
6 You know, it was --there were --it was a small circle of people around, but there 
7 were probably a little bit more than a dozen, less --probably around two-dozen people 
8 down there. So I don't know who's actively participating in that call or those 
9 discussions. 
10 Q Do you remember hearing that the President was frustrated with the Vice 
11 President related to the Joint Session on January the 6th? 
12 A I remember hearing that --I remember hearing that there were frustrations 
13 expressed, but I wasn't --I wasn't privy to anything that's not already public about that. 
14 Q Okay. And, in that tent on January 6th, what do you remember those 
15 frustrations being as relayed to you? 
16 
17 
18 A 
Q 
A As related to me, nothing. 
I'm sorry. Relayed, not related to you. 
Oh, I'm sorry. I thought you said related to me. I'm sorry. Excuse me. 
19 I mean, primarily just that, you know, there were discussions about what the Vice 
20 President was going to do that day, but nothing of consequence that I can recall right now 
21 that I had overheard or anybody had relayed to me at the tent that morning, just that, 
22 you know, generally speaking, there were frustrations with the Vice President and his 
23 team in the readout from the call that morning. 
24 Q The readout from the call that you heard that morning, is there any more 
25 specifics that you remember from that readout?  1 A Just that the call was the first definitive response that we got from the Vice 
2 President's team about the trajectory of what was going to happen on his end that day. 
3 
4 Q 
A And what do you remember that trajectory being on his end that day? 
That he was going to follow the protocol established by previous Vice 
5 Presidents when counting the electoral votes after a Presidential election. 
6 Q And did that readout come before the President spoke on the Ellipse rally 
7 that day? 
8 A I'm not sure if the Vice President ever shared that information with other 
9 people, but the first I remember hearing about it was in the tent that morning. But, 
10 again, I was not in the West Wing when --I don't remember the specific time set for the 
11 call. I don't have it up still on our screen here. But I believe I was already in the 
12 Eisenhower Building with our Secret Service detail or on West Exec. So I wasn't even 63 
13 physically present in the West Wing when the call was underway, to my knowledge right 
14 now. 
15 Q Do you know whether the President knew, before he spoke at the rally on 
16 the Ellipse, that the Vice President was not going to do anything other than just count 
17 votes in the Joint Session of Congress on January the 6th? 
18 A I'm not sure the President's mindset or what he anticipated happening 
19 specifically. I just remember his call to the Vice President was the definitive response 
20 that we got with the approach that Mr. Pence was going to take with respect to counting 
21 the electoral votes. 
22 Q If we can go to exhibit No. 4, please. 
23 This is a private schedule of the President with some handwriting at the top. 
24 And the handwriting shows various times, 11:10, 11:17, and 11:20. And it looks like a 
25 meeting and the participants of that meeting, and then a call with Senator Loeffler and a  1 call with the Vice President. 
2 Do you know whose handwriting that is? 
3 
4 A I don't definitively. 
Q Okay. Does it --and I won't hold you to it, but does it look like it could be 
5 Molly Michael's handwriting? 64 
6 A It resembles what her handwriting looks like, but I don't know if that was her 
7 handwriting specifically. 
8 Q Okay. 
9 And then that call at 11:17 with Senator Loeffler and the call at 11:20 with the 
10 Vice President I'll represent to you is not in the switchboard logs that we've received from 
11 the Archives. 
12 Do you know how else the President would have connected in a call with a 
13 Senator and the Vice President that didn't go through the White House switchboard? 
14 A I don't know specifically for these two calls, No. There was a number of 
15 people in the Oval Office that morning, and I anticipate that some of them will have their 
16 cell phones with them, and if they didn't, maybe they had placed the call in the Outer 
17 Oval, and we were a little bit delayed that morning. So I'm sure the people were just 
18 using the resources that we had available to get a hold of people that he wanted to speak 
19 with. 
20 It wasn't entirely unheard of to have another person place a call on their work 
21 phone and have them on speaker and have it be in their official call logs. Now, I know 
22 that there's a number of participants in that meeting as it appears on exhibit 4 here that 
23 wouldn't have had White House issued devices. So I don't know who would have placed 
24 those calls if they're not on the President's call log, but it could potentially be on 
25 somebody else's call log if someone else had placed the call.  1 Mr. Passantino. If I could just ask you to be real specific. With respect to this 
2 call, do you have any specific knowledge? I know he asked you --
3 Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah. I don't know who would have placed these calls, 
4 but --does that answer your question? 
5 BYMR.-
6 
7 
8 Q Yep. That's perfectly fine. 
And you can take exhibit 4 down. 
And then the background just generally how other calls could be placed is very 
9 helpful to us as well. So I appreciate that, Ms. Hutchinson. 65 
10 You already mentioned that you went to the Ellipse rally and that you were in the 
11 tent in the offstage area --forgive me, I can't remember what that's called precisely. 
12 But did you ride in the motorcade to get to the Ellipse rally, or did you walk? 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q No, I rode in the motorcade. 
Were you in the same car as the President? 
No. 
Did you talk to the President the morning of January 6th? 
Not --we didn't have a private conversation, no. 
Were you involved in any kind of group discussions with the President 
19 before his speech? 
20 A There were a number of group discussions happening in the tent. I don't 
21 recall if him and I had personal dialogue in the group discussions or if it was more of a 
22 conversational --conversational piece between multiple people. But it would have --it's 
23 nothing more substantive than these people might be here. 
24 I know Mr. Giuliani was out in front of the stage area, and I had come back in to 
25 tell Mr. Meadows that --Mr. Meadows had asked me to find Mr. Giuliani, and I went back  66 
1 in, and I remember Mr. Meadows asking me, and he was talking to the President at that 
2 time. So I don't know if I specifically --if I addressed the answer to Mr. Meadows' 
3 question specifically to Mr. Meadows or if it was more of --it was really to multiple 
4 people at that time. But, other than that, I didn't have any substantive conversations 
5 with the President. I kind of hung a little bit further back that morning. 
6 Q Based on your perceptions in, clearly, a group setting, what was the 
7 President's mood that morning before the rally on the Ellipse? 
8 A I don't think I can speak definitively to that. 
Did he seem upset or happy, neither? 9 
10 Q 
A I don't --I don't think I'm --I don't think I can speak to that. I think that's a 
11 question better suited for Mr. Trump --or Mr. Trump to answer himself. 
12 Mr. Passantino. And he's --I think in fairness, he's not asking what was the 
13 President --I think he's asking --you can give him your observations to the extent that 
14 you have an observation, making it clear that you're not speaking for the mindset of him. 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 Ms. Hutchinson. Okay. 
Mr. Passantino. But it is a fair question for him to ask -­
Ms. Hutchinson. Okay. 
Mr. Passantino. --what your perception of what you observed. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah. I mean, the perception of what I observed was that his 
20 mood was a little bit more solemn. In some ways, I think that some people are a little 
21 bit more volatile and angry. I think that Mr. Trump was frustrated, and he was angry in 
22 some aspects, but it wasn't anything --I don't know if it was specifically 
23 about --specifically about what. 
24 I remember logistically with the rally, there was a few hiccups that morning that 
25 we were dealing with that he wasn't happy with. But, I mean, overall I think his  67 
1 mood --the best way I could describe his mood in the observations that I had that 
2 morning was --probably "frustrated" is the best word to describe it.  68 
1 
2 [12:15 p.m.] 
3 BY MR. 
4 Q As best you could tell, was any of that frustration related to what was about 
5 to happen at the joint session, in other words, Congress was going to count the electoral 
6 votes and declare then --well, Mr. Biden as the winner? 
7 Mr. Passantino. But, again, that's only if you know. You can give your 
8 observations if you know the source or don't. He's not asking you to speculate that. If 
9 you don't know, you don't know. But, you understand the distinction? 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 Ms. Hutchinson. Yes. 
Mr. Passantino. Okay. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Can you repeat your question one more time? 
BYMR-
Q Of course, yeah. 
15 And based on what you saw and heard the President say, was any of the 
16 frustration that you perceived based on the fact that the joint session of Congress was 
17 about to meet and declare Joe Biden as the winner of the Presidential election? 
18 A In the frustrations that I observed, it was --the frustrations were tailored 
19 more towards --with the Vice President for taking the route that he had declared that he 
20 was going to take that morning. 
21 
22 Q 
A And what was it specifically that you observed that made you think that? 
I would say general conversation about, you know, how he perceived his call 
23 as the Vice President when --and how others were trying to help facilitate any of that 
24 anger and help channel it into --or frustration and channel it into productively using it 
25 during the rally and not caring too much.  69 
1 Q What do you recall him saying about his conversation with the Vice 
2 President that morning? "He" being the President. 
3 A I don't recall any specific quotes. More just general --general conversation 
4 between people in throwing around ideas and just words of encouragement. 
5 Q Okay. And totally understand it's been a while and wouldn't expect you to 
6 sit here and recall specific quotes. But, generally, what did the President say or what do 
7 you remember him saying about his call with the Vice President that morning? 
8 
9 
10 A 
Q 
A Just that it was a frustrating call, disappointing. 
Disappointing in what sense? 
I mean, primarily just that, you know, I think some people felt in the dark. 
11 You know, there was several meetings that happened in the days leading up to January 
12 6th and there was no definitive response given, which is entirely understandable, but I 
13 think that some people just kind of felt slighted. 
14 And I don't want to speak specifically to whether the President felt that way or 
15 any individual themself, but I think some people just felt blind-sided that this is how 
16 we --they found out, how the group of people found out that were at the rally site with 
17 the President and just minutes before the rally began taking place and that there wasn't 
18 more of a heads-up or kind of an indicator in the previous meetings that had been 
19 specifically given to --that there wasn't --there also wasn't an indicator that he was going 
20 to take a route that he didn't take. There was just --I think the neutrality of the 
21 way --the approach that the Vice President's team took and then, you know, with the 
22 outcome of the conversation that morning was the primary source of frustration. And 
23 then --yeah. Does that answer your question? 
24 
25 Q It does. It's very helpful, Ms. Hutchinson. 
So just to clarify, in part for the record, when you say that there's frustration  70 
1 about no definitive response, are you talking about the efforts that had occurred in the 
2 days before to have the Vice President take some action that would have benefited the 
3 President during the joint session of January 6th, and the Vice President hadn't said what 
4 he would do until then? Is that a fair characterization? 
5 A Primarily. I don't know if I'd use the word "efforts." It was more of like 
6 discussions of different approaches that the Vice President could take. You know, I 
7 don't want to speak to whether there was a concerted effort of what exact approach he 
8 should take, but there were conversations happening about, you know, we believe that 
9 this might be --and I say "we" in the context of whoever was presenting the ideas. 
10 wasn't present for many of those discussions. But just in terms of different ideas that 
11 were kind of being discussed in the days leading up to January 6th. But I don't want to 
12 kind of pinpoint one specific effort over another, unless you can --or want to be more 
13 specific. 
14 Q Yeah, I think I do. I mean, we're kind of on January 6th, but this is helpful 
15 to just break away and put some color on this specifically. 
16 I'm assuming --I don't know for sure, but I'm assuming you're talking about 
17 meetings in which John Eastman and maybe others told the President the Vice President 
18 could take some action on January 6th during the joint session. Is that right or are you 
19 talking about something else? 
20 A That's --that's right. 
21 Q Okay. Can you tell us --you said you weren't present for many of those 
22 meetings. Were you present for any of those meetings where the Vice President's 
23 authority on January 6th came up? 
24 A I was present for a number of meetings, not --I wouldn't say any from start 
25 to finish, but, again, in my role with Mr. Meadows, I was frequently in and out of rooms  71 
1 with him, and there were conversations underway about all that. 
2 You mentioned John Eastman. That was a topic of conversation probably from I 
3 believe January 2nd I remember hearing his name for the first time, the 1st or the 2nd. 
4 But, again, I --there was no meeting that I had actively participated in from start 
5 to finish or that I was --definitely not that I was a --a strategic voice in. This is more of 
6 just general top-line conversations that were happening in our office and just among staff 
7 in general. 
8 Q Fair enough. When was the first time you remember hearing discussions 
9 about the Vice President's authority on January the 6th? 
10 
11 A 
Q Early December. 
Okay. Early December. And I guess I'll start all the way back in the 
12 timeline or at least the relevant timeline here, the election. Do you remember hearing 
13 it come up around the time of the election, in November? 
14 A I don't remember hearing it when I was --we were on the campaign trail, so I 
15 don't --and we were traveling a lot. So I don't remember hearing it on the campaign 
16 trail. 
17 
18 
19 So I would say like the period between the end of the election towards the middle 
20 of November, no. You know, I --Vice President's name had been mentioned as early as 
21 when I had gotten back, but I'm not privy to any conversation happening about 
22 specifically actions that he could take. I just remember, you know, people talking about 
23 that it's the Vice President's role to certify the electoral college votes and --but 
24 I --there --at least that I was privy to at the time, there wasn't any conversation that I 
25 specifically recall happening that I --end of November-early December about specific  72 
1 strategic action that the Vice President could take. 
2 Q Okay. And so when then --just to clarify, when was the first time you 
3 remember, to use your phrase, the issue of strategic action the Vice President could take 
4 on January 6th coming up? 
5 
6 A 
Q Again, potentially the end of November-early December. 
Do you remember the context in which it first came up that you recall? 
7 Was it a meeting, a phone call, chat during just office drop-ins? 
8 A I don't recall specifically the very first time that I had heard about it. 
9 remember general timeframe that I had --I recall this happening was there were a couple 
10 meetings that Mr. Meadows had where meeting participants had come in prepared with 
11 information about ways that they think the Vice President could approach certifying the 
12 electoral college votes. 
13 But I don't --the very first time, I can't --1 don't recall the very first time I heard 
14 about it. But in the earlier stages of it, there were --it was mostly just meeting readout 
15 information. 
16 Q Okay. And you just mentioned a couple meetings Mr. Meadows had with 
17 various people. Who were the various people who were raising this idea of the Vice 
18 President doing anything other than just counting electoral votes on January the 6th? 
19 A Campaign officials and a few Members of Congress. I say campaign 
20 officials. I don't --I think the campaign had begun off-boarding people at that point, so I 
21 don't --I don't know if they were private citizens at that point or --not that campaign 
22 officials weren't, but I don't know if they were off-boarded but still involved in the efforts. 
23 People that were once involved with the campaign and a handful of Members of 
24 Congress. 
25 Q Who were those campaign officials or people who had been involved in the  73 
1 campaign? 
2 A Mr. Giuliani, Ms. Powell, Ms. Ellis. I'm trying to think specifically about the 
3 early stages of this --stages of this. Those are the ones that I can immediately recall. 
4 Members of Congress: Mr. Perry, Mr. Jordan. Mr. Scott Perry, Mr. Jim Jordan. 
5 Those are the two that jump to my mind right now about being --oh, Ms. Marjorie Taylor 
6 Greene and Lauren Boebert are the four Members that immediately jump out to me. 
7 Again, I'm trying to hone in specifically on the beginning stages of this, these 
8 conversations. 
9 Q Perfect. 
10 Mr. Passantino. And he'll appreciate like if you have a specific recollection of 
11 timeline or you don't. He wants to know what your --
12 Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah. I recall those individuals being involved in the earlier 
13 stages at this time. I'm sure there were other individuals involved, but those are ones 
14 that I remember specifically being involved that Mr. Meadows had outreach to. 
15 BYMR._ 
16 Q Okay. And this is in the late November, maybe early December timeframe. 
17 Is that right? 
18 A Sometime after Thanksgiving. Definitely before Christmas. Probably the 
19 first week of December if not the last week of November. 
20 Q And do you remember what their ideas were with respect to the Vice 
21 President's authority on January 6th? 
22 A I don't. I don't have access to any of my official devices or correspondence. 
23 I'm sure I had things in my work email. But specific actions, no. I just remember 
24 general --general correspondence of Vice President may be able to do this. We should 
25 look into this. We should explore these ideas. But nothing more specific than that  1 right now. 
2 Q Do you recall one of the ideas coming up is that the Vice President could 
3 choose which electoral votes to choose if a State sends in a slate of electoral votes for 
4 Mr. Trump and a slate of electoral votes for Mr. Biden? Was that an issue that you 
5 remember coming up early in these discussions? 
6 A I remember that idea being discussed. I don't recall the time period in 
7 which it was discussed. 
8 Q Do you remember, the Representatives that you mentioned, Mr. Perry, 
9 Mr. Jordan, Ms. Taylor Greene, and Mr. Ober I believe you said, do you remember them 
10 talking about that idea? 
11 
12 
13 
14 A 
Q Ms. Boe be rt of Colorado. 
Oh, Boebert, I'm sorry. 
Do you remember them talking about that idea specific --or in particular? 
A Specifically, no. I don't want to --I don't want to speculate or pin it on a 
15 certain individual. And particularly, like, those discussions weren't necessarily 74 
16 happening in a group setting. There were various people reaching out. I mean, some 
17 people had come in together to meet with the chief of staff. Some people came 
18 independently. It was a mix, so I don't know. 
19 Q And do you remember at that time in late November-early December 
20 anybody reaching out to the Vice President or his office to talk about his role on January 
21 the 6th? 
22 A I don't --I don't know specifically. I didn't work very closely with the Vice 
23 President's team, so I think that'd be a question better suited for anybody else that has 
24 given interviews or is going to give interviews on behalf of the Vice President. 
25 Mr.- Okay. And we're going to talk about some specific meetings,  75 
1 including on December the 21st and others, but before we get off this generally, do you 
2 have any followup, any members, anybody in the room? 
3 BYMR-
4 Q Okay. If you can pull up exhibit No. 5, and I just bring you back to January 
5 6th and we're still at the rally on the Ellipse. 
6 Exhibit No. 5 is a copy of the speech that we have received in this investigation 
7 that the President delivered on January the 6th. Did you have any role in speech 
8 writing? 
9 Can you hear us okay? 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q Yes. 
Okay. Did you have any role in speech writing? 
No. 
Did you have any role in assisting with this speech in particular? 
No. 
Okay. I don't know if you've ever seen the President's speeches or drafts of 
16 the President's speech before, but do you know if there's a distinction between what's in 
17 black and what's in red? Does that mean anything to you? 
18 
19 A Not specifically, no. 
tenure in the chief of staff's office. I had received copies of the speeches during my 
Every speech would go through our office and I had 
20 received all of them, but it wasn't frequently that I ever opened them, to be honest. 
21 I --I always looked at speeches once they were already concluded. And I do know that 
22 there was a lot of work being done on this one that morning. So I've never seen 
23 anything in red before. 
24 But as a general White House policy, if there were drafts of speeches being 
25 circulated, oftentimes people would indicate their changes in a separate color font if they  1 weren't doing track changes. But for this specific speech, I'm not sure. 
And do you know who worked on this speech for the President? 
I would assume the speech writing team. 
Don't know that for sure, though? 76 
2 
3 
4 
5 Q 
A 
Q 
A I mean, there are --people often would throw ideas around. Lots of people 
6 throw ideas around. I'm not sure who typed this up, no. But --
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 Mr. Passantino. He's asking if you know. 
Ms. Hutchinson. No, I don't know. 
Mr- Okay. 
Ms. Hutchinson. The speech writers did have jurisdiction over speeches, though. 
BYMR. 
Q That makes sense. 
If we can pull up exhibit No. 6, please. Exhibit No. 6 is text messages or, excuse 
14 me, are composed of text messages that you exchanged with somebody named Tony, TO. 
15 Is that Tony Ornate? 
16 
17 A 
Q Yes, sir. 
Okay. If you can go to page 6 of this exhibit. These are the first messages 
18 from January the 6th that you provided to us with Mr. Ornate. And it looks like at 12:45, 
19 he asks you: "How's it going?" You say, "Page 3 of 9," and then "Mark is super 
20 stressed and Rudy is wandering around with more evidence." 
21 Can you explain what that reference to page 3 of 9 is? 
22 A The speech that was up on the teleprompter was nine pages long. So from 
23 a staffing standpoint, we frequently would track how far he was into the speech to see 
24 approximate timing for the end of the rally. So page 3 of 9 would indicate to us that he 
25 probably was about halfway through, because the second half of speeches he would go a  77 
1 little bit quicker. 
2 Q And then the next message is: "Mark is super stressed and Rudy is 
3 wandering around with more evidence." 
4 What was Mr. Meadows stressed about, if you know? 
5 A I don't know specifically. I don't recall specifically what he was stressed 
6 about at that time that I sent that message. Sorry. 
7 Mr. Meadows had spent probably the first couple minutes of the rally in the tent, 
8 and then he --if you're looking at the build-out of the Presidential motorcade, the chief of 
9 staff and typically one other national security representative go in a car called the control 
10 car, which is a --it's technically a SCIF. You can make secure calls from there. But 
11 sometimes the chief would just go into the control car to make personal phone calls. 
12 And that's where he spent the majority of the rally. 
13 I know that he was on several calls during the rally. And I went over to meet 
14 with him at one point, and he had just waved me away, which is out of the ordinary. 
15 And then he popped out and had mentioned a few things to me. 
16 Q What did he mention to you? 
17 A But I don't know what he specifically was stressed about. He wanted to 
18 speak with Mr. Giuliani. He couldn't get a hold of Mr. Jordan. Little administrative 
19 things that he needed help with to streamline the early afternoon so he could continue 
20 doing his job with the President. 
21 
22 Q 
A Do you know what he wanted to speak with Representative Jordan about? 
I don't know. I know that he had spoken with Mr. Jordan about the 
23 contents of what Mr. Jordan's floor speech were going to be and --was going to be and 
24 the timing of Mr. Jordan's floor speech, but I don't know any more specifics than that. 
25 don't know if that's what he was trying to get a hold of --get a hold of him for in that  1 moment. 
2 
3 Q 
A Do you know what the significance --I'm sorry, go ahead. 
You're fine. 78 
4 I was not around --I was not around Mr. Meadows. I probably was around him 
5 for maybe 40 to 50 percent of the rally but not the entirety of it. 
6 Q Do you remember what the significance of this timing of Representative 
7 Jordan's floor speech was to Mr. Meadows? 
8 A I think that --I don't think. He wanted Mr. Jordan to give the floor speech 
9 after the rally had ended. And I'm under the impression that the intentions behind that 
10 were so when we arrived back at the White House, that staff and the President could 
11 watch Mr. Jordan's floor speech live. 
12 Q You also say in that message, "Rudy is wandering around with more 
13 evidence." What does that mean? 
14 A Mr. Giuliani had information that he believed was credible enough to pause 
15 the electoral count that morning --or that afternoon. 
16 
17 
18 Q 
A 
Q Do you know what happened with that evidence? 
I don't. 
Do you know what Mr. Meadows' view on that was, whether there was 
19 credible evidence to pause the electoral count during the joint session on January 6th? 
20 A Mr. Meadows was always willing to hear ideas, as he never wanted 
21 information to go unheard and for it not to be perceived as legitimate information in case 
22 it was. But I don't know his specific --I don't know his specific mindset or opinions on 
23 which evidence was seen as more credible to him, if any at all. That's something that 
24 you'd have to ask Mr. Meadows. 
25 Q Okay. But he never shared his views on whether there was sufficient  79 
1 evidence to change the outcome of the election? 
2 A There was a lot of incoming during that period from individuals and 
3 principals alike that had heard or discovered information that they believed was credible 
4 that was being elevated to Mr. Meadows. I know that some of it he perceived as being 
5 credible enough to be raised to the President. I --and I'm speaking generally right now. 
6 I am not speaking --unless you are more specific, I can't speak to information that certain 
7 individuals raised or during any time period. 
8 
9 Q 
A Okay. 
Just generally speaking, that there was some evidence that he thought was 
10 more --had more grounds to it than other evidence. 
11 Q This may come up again later, but do you know what the 
12 evidence specifically that Mr. Giuliani had that day on January the 6th was about? 
13 A I think Mr. Giuliani --Mr. Giuliani had multiple pieces of information that he 
14 wanted elevated to Mr. Meadows and to the President. The one that I can specifically 
15 recall is voter fraud in Georgia. 
16 Q Do you know what aspect of voter fraud? Was it like a dead person voting 
17 thing, a Dominion voting machine? 
18 A Yes. The one that he specifically --that I specifically recall was the 
19 deceased individuals in Georgia. 
20 Q Okay. Do you know if the evidence that Mr. Giuliani had that day on 
21 January 6th was ever given directly to the President? 
22 A I don't know definitively. 
23 Q Later in those messages you say: "The crowd looks good from this vantage 
24 point. As long as we get the shot. He was fucking furious." 
25 Who's the "he" there that was furious?  1 
2 A 
Q Mr. Trump. 
And that furious, that fury, is that based on what you had perceived in the 
3 tent before the speech? 
4 A Yes, but --and I'm trying to be deliberate with the way I answer your 
5 question, because I don't want to --I don't want to not answer your question. 
6 But I had spoken to Mr. Ornate this morning specifically with that message. 
7 Mr. Ornate and I had discussed, as I had previously mentioned, logistical plans for the 
8 rally. And I believe if you were to scroll down a little bit more, there might be --or 
9 maybe it was the next screenshot, but there was --we talked about Capitol logistics. 80 
10 But speaking specifically to this text, when we were planning the logistics for this 
11 rally, we wanted to make sure that we were able to get enough of Mr. Trump's 
12 supporters into the designated area as possible. And, you know, there were just certain 
13 circumstances that we couldn't get as many individuals in as the space allotted for. And 
14 Mr. Trump always wanted to be inclusive and have as much space for his people as 
15 physically possible in the proximity that we were given. 
16 And just in this particular instance, we got as many people in --I say "we." 
17 Staffers had gotten as many people in as they possibly could with the regulations that 
18 were given, but there was space for a little bit --a few more people than --than had been 
19 admitted to the --to the Ellipse area. 
20 Q And the next message from Mr. Ornate says: He doesn't get it that people 
21 on the monument side don't want to come in. They can see things from there and don't 
22 have to go through the mags. 
23 Does that refer to magnetometers that the Secret Service or others used to check 
24 people for weapons and other devices? 
25 A Yes, sir. The mags are -- 81 
So the mags -- 1 
2 Q 
A --funded by the campaign or whoever is funding the rally. And during the 
3 campaign, it was the campaign would fund them, but Secret Service does have 
4 operational control over them. 
5 Q Did you ever find out why people didn't want to go through the 
6 magnetometers on January 6th? 
7 
8 Mr. Passantino. I mean, if you can speak for the public. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah. Yeah, I don't want to be the public spokesperson here 
9 for that. 
10 
11 Mr.- Sure. No, I understand. 
Ms. Hutchinson. But I do know from general feedback --now, again, 
12 there's --this is not the --these are the two main pieces of feedback that Mr. Ornate and 
13 I had received also from communicating with staffers that were working the advance 
14 operation. 
15 One --on one side, there are people that wanted to start --walk to the rally 
16 before the rally had ended. And then there was another side that there were people 
17 trying to get in but they couldn't because they had American flags, and you can't have I 
18 think it was a poster over 16 by 24. So if you had an item that you didn't want to forfeit 
19 to the Secret Service, you couldn't --you weren't permitted entry into the rally. 
20 Mr. - At this point, on January 6th when you're exchanging these 
21 messages, did you or Mr. Ornate have reason to think that people didn't want to go 
22 through the magnetometers because they had weapons or bear spray or any other 
23 potentially dangerous equipment? 
24 
25 Mr. Passantino. To the extent you didn't already answer that, but --
Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah. I mean, people had items that weren't permitted.  82 
1 That people --people brought items that were not permitted entry by Secret Service 
2 guidance. Some of them were American flags. Some of them could have been bear 
3 spray. I forget the other one that you just mentioned, but --and if they weren't willing 
4 to give up control and possession of those items, they weren't permitted entry, which is 
5 typical for any security event, especially one that's held under the jurisdiction of Secret 
6 Service. 
7 BYMR.-
8 Q And just to be clear --I appreciate that. Just to be clear, did Mr. Ornate or 
9 anybody else in the White House have reason to believe that people were not going 
10 through the mags because of dangerous devices as opposed to flags or poster boards, for 
11 example? 
12 A Yes, the only reason to believe that was based off of feedback that we were 
13 getting live from individuals, whether they are paid or volunteers, and Secret Service 
14 agents that were operating the security function down at the Ellipse while we were still in 
15 the West Wing and on White House grounds. 
16 Q Who was communicating? I know you mentioned volunteers and others. 
17 Are those like campaign folks who are there to assist with the rally? 
18 A I think some of them --I know some of them previously worked for the 
19 campaign. Again, I didn't work often and closely with campaign officials, so I'm not sure 
20 if they were off-boarded by the time that they were working, if they were paid by a 
21 different entity, or if they were volunteering through a different entity or independently. 
22 But, you know, there were names of individuals that I know had previously worked for 
23 the Trump campaign in 2020 that were working that morning. 
24 Q Do you know the names of any people who had communicated to the Secret 
25 Service or White House that people had dangerous --potentially dangerous equipment  83 
1 with them on January 6th? 
2 A I don't. I don't recall. I didn't have communications with them 
3 specifically. Concerns and information had been relayed to me to relate to the chief of 
4 staff, but I didn't have communications with anybody down there that morning that I can 
5 recall right now. 
6 Q Those concerns you talk about, about potentially dangerous equipment 
7 being present, they were relayed to you. Who were they relayed to you from or by? 
8 A Mr. Ornate. Yeah, Mr. Ornate is the one specifically that I can answer to. 
9 Mr. Robert Peede. Bobby Peede was also in charge of the rally. And Max Miller was 
10 working the rally too. 
11 Now, I know that I had conversations with them down at the tent after the rally 
12 had already begun, but I don't recall if --I don't --I don't --I don't recall whether they 
13 reached out to me when I was still up at the White House. I --it would have been in my 
14 text messages that I turned over, though, and I don't --I know that I turned over texts 
15 from Bobby, but I don't think there was any from him that morning. 
16 Q Do you remember any specific items that any of those people mentioned to 
17 you, and specifically dangerous items, not the flags or the poster boards? 
18 A I don't recall the word "dangerous" being thrown around in associate with 
19 the items specifically, but I remember, generally speaking, there were individuals who 
20 had, you know, American flags that were too large, which in my opinion is irrelevant, but 
21 it's not a dangerous item. But, you know --
22 Q Sure. 
23 A --I remember American flags, the flagpoles. Those are the two that I 
24 remember specifically being mentioned beforehand. I know that when I had gotten 
25 down to the rally site, the bear spray had been mentioned. And I believe pocket --well,  84 
1 I know pocketknives had been mentioned, but I don't know like specifically the length of 
2 them. I just remember pocketknives, generally speaking, had been mentioned. 
3 But, again, those are --if we're talking about items confiscated of people trying to 
4 enter something, you know, that's --it's not completely unheard of to have a pocketknife 
5 confiscated from an individual. And I know that there were items confiscated; that 
6 people that had wanted to go into the rally to watch it, they did obtain items from people 
7 too. 
8 
9 
10 Q 
A 
Q What about firearms, do you remember any reports of firearms coming in? 
Not that I can recall specifically that morning or at the rally site. 
And you mentioned earlier that you were asked to relay this information to 
11 Mr. Meadows. Did you tell Mr. Meadows that there were reports of bear spray and 
12 pocketknives, among other things, that people were finding on the rally attendees? 
13 A I remember having conversations with Mr. Meadows about rally attendees, 
14 and I remember having conversations with him about the number of people that were 
15 permitted entry. I don't recall if I specifically listed the items. But I also --
16 
17 Q 
A Okay. And --
My relationship with Mr. Meadows, you know, I --I use --I did have a close 
18 relationship with him and, you know, if I didn't feel it needed to be elevated to him at the 
19 time, you know, it could have been enough for me just to say, you know, we got this 
20 number of people and there were people that weren't permitted entry, in case the 
21 President asks about this. Not say anything more specific, just because it wasn't entirely 
22 necessary for him to know and to be elevated to him at that time just because there was 
23 a lot of other things going on. 
24 Q Sure. I imagine everybody was drinking out of a firehose at an event like 
25 this. But do you remember specifically relaying to Mr. Meadows that there had been  85 
1 bear spray or knives confiscated or found among the rally attendees? 
2 A I --I don't recall specifically what I had said to him. I know that I had told 
3 him that there were a number of people who weren't permitted entry because they had 
4 items that the Secret Service deemed as dangerous or nonpermissible. I --I don't recall 
5 whether or not I listed off specific items that had been relayed to me by some of my 
6 colleagues. It's very possible I did. I don't recall. 
7 Q What was his reaction when you talked about dangerous items --or items 
8 deemed to be dangerous by the Secret Service to Mr. Meadows? 
9 A I don't recall specifically. 
10 Mr. _, can you go back to the Ornate text exchange. 
11 BY MR. 
12 Q Ms. Hutchinson, I just want to make sure, separating what- was 
13 just asking you about Meadows, I want to go back to this exchange with Tony Ornate. 
14 When you said, "The crowd looks good from this vantage point, as long as we get 
15 the shot," tell me more what you meant by that. What's your point in conveying to 
16 Ornate the visual of the crowd looking good and the shot? 
17 A I don't --I don't want to speak too logistical and I'm trying to tailor my 
18 response so it suits the question you're asking the best possible. But the way that we 
19 would always try to build rallies out was long and narrow, because that made for a better 
20 picture. When they --when we had a wider space in terms of the length in relation to 
21 parallel to the rally stage or wherever the President was making his speech from, it was 
22 more difficult to get a shot with everybody in it as opposed to if there was a --somebody 
23 with a camera taking it long ways. 
24 The rally that morning at the Ellipse was obviously an oval and the space that we 
25 had was not what we had been --grown accustomed to during airport rallies. So we just  86 
1 wanted to make sure and the President wanted to make sure, as we were planning this in 
2 the days leading up to the 6th, that, one, we would be able to get a good number of 
3 people in so nobody was left out, but also so that it was adequately captured to put a 
4 photo out at some point and just to have in White House records for the President to 
5 have as a keepsake. 
6 Q Okay. So do you recall discussion with the President specifically, either 
7 with you or hearing about it, where he was concerned about the shot, the visual, the look 
8 of, then the documentation of this particular Ellipse rally? 
9 A He was, but it's not out of the ordinary for Mr. Trump. Mr. Trump is very 
10 hands-on and involved in the planning of his events. He is a man that's very involved in 
11 the media, as I'm sure you all know, which, again, is one of his unique characteristics. 
12 And, you know, I can't speak to all politicians, but I think that with him, he wants 
13 to be more involved in the planning of those events. So for him to have insight and eyes 
14 and ears on how this was being planned operationally is not out of the ordinary for him at 
15 all. We had these conversations for nearly every single rally that we had during the 
16 campaign. 
17 Q I appreciate that. I just want to be clear. He was similarly concerned, 
18 consistent with that pattern, about this one, about the Ellipse rally and how it looked 
19 visually through cameras? 
20 A Correct. And I just want to be clear on my end. It would have been out of 
21 the ordinary if he was hands-off this rally. 
22 
23 
24 Q 
A 
Q Got it. 
Because he was hands-on with it for every other rally that we had hosted. 
I see. Okay. So then the last line of your text to Mr. Ornate, "He was 
25 fucking furious," does that relate to his concerns about the crowd, the visual? I'm just  87 
1 trying to understand what specifically you meant when you said to Tony Ornate he, the 
2 President, was fucking furious. 
3 A Yeah. I mean, that was the first time that most of us had gone down there, 
4 so it was a little bit longer than we had --longer in terms of the space available. We 
5 thought it was going to be, the length of it, the length of the rally site in relation to the 
6 stage --parallel to the stage was going to be shorter and built further back. 
7 So he was not happy that morning with how people were spread so far out and 
8 didn't have sight on the actual stage, because of visual blocks, with the way that the stage 
9 was built and that it was more difficult to get a photo adequately capturing the number of 
10 people that were in the designated area that morning. 
11 Q I see. And how did you know that, Ms. Hutchinson, that the 
12 President --did he convey that to you or to Mr. Meadows in your presence, that he was 
13 fucking furious, to use your words, about the shot not being sufficient to --sufficiently 
14 attractive to capture the crowd? 
15 A Again, the offstage announce area in the tent is small, and there were a 
16 number of people involved in conversations. I --I don't recall if it was relayed --it 
17 wasn't relayed specifically to me. I don't remember --I don't recall whether it was 
18 directed at me or whether it was directed at Mr. Meadows or if it was just he was, 
19 generally speaking, angry. 
20 There's a number of individuals involved in that conversation, so I don't recall 
21 whether it was directed to a particular individual right now. I know that he had spoken 
22 with individuals working the advance portion of it, but, you know, during that 
23 conversation I don't know. 
24 Q Okay. And then Mr. Ornato's response is about people on the monument 
25 side. Is it fair to say that there was sort of a magnetometer barrier, but there was a  88 
1 crowd outside of that, that Mr. Ornato's response to you involves the people that didn't 
2 come into the --through the magnetometers to the event? 
3 A Yeah. And that was the individuals that they didn't want to come in 
4 because they didn't want their personal items confiscated from them by Secret Service. 
5 Q Okay. So how would their lack of presence inside the magnetometers 
6 affect the visual or the crowd looking good and the shot that we're talking about? I'm 
7 just trying to understand what the relevance is of people outside of the magnetometers 
8 to the shot. 
9 A I mean, in relation to me and Tony's convers- --me and Mr. Ornato's 
10 conversation specifically here? 
11 Q Yes. Well, start with that, and then any other conversations that the 
12 President or things you heard the President say. 
13 A The purpose of me and Mr. Ornato's conversation here was us building off of 
14 a conversation that we had had several times in different iterations leading up to the 6th 
15 of --and I don't recall the --the concrete number that we could physically fit inside that 
16 rally site pertinent to the permit that we had, that Mr. Trump had for the rally. 
17 But me and Mr. Ornato's conversation here was specifically that we could have 
18 fit --I don't know if it was a couple hundred more or a couple thousand more, but we 
19 could have fit more individuals in the designated area. But everybody who wanted to 
20 come in had already been magged to come in. 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A 
Q Got it. 
Does that make sense? 
Yeah, that makes perfect sense. 
So fair to say that the more people crammed in, the better the shot, right? 
A Correct. And that's kind of what we had for almost every rally.  89 
1 Q Right. So if there's room that is available for people that haven't come in, 
2 then the shot is not as attractive. Is that sort of a fair general assumption? 
3 A Yes. I also know there's a lot of focus being drawn to the actual shot. 
4 There also is an element to this of Mr. Trump wanting everybody to be included that 
5 traveled from across the country to attend this rally. And I'm not trying to take a --I'm 
6 trying to be as factual and as informative as possible with this. 
7 He didn't want people to feel left out. He didn't want people to feel that there 
8 wasn't an effort made to get them in. He wanted to make sure that everybody had 
9 gotten into the rally that had traveled far to come see him speak had been permitted an 
10 opportunity to enter. Because he knew that there was extra space, he wanted to make 
11 sure that, one, we got the shot, but, two, that nobody was excluded from attending the 
12 event. 
13 Q I understand. And then just to finish this line here, the last portion, your 
14 response is: That was relayed --"That's what was relayed several times and in different 
15 iterations." 
16 Does that mean, Ms. Hutchinson, that you or others conveyed directly to the 
17 President that there are a lot of people that don't want to come in that are on the other 
18 side of the magnetometers? 
19 A Yeah. It was relayed to the President several times in different iterations 
20 that everybody who had wanted to enter the rally had entered the rally at that point, that 
21 he was clear to go on stage, that we are finished magging people --that volunteers were 
22 finished magging people, that Secret Service was finished magging people. 
23 Q Right. And do you remember, Ms. Hutchinson, whether it was conveyed to 
24 the President that the reason they don't want to come in is because they may be in 
25 possession of prohibited items that would be captured or screened by the  90 
1 magnetometers? 
2 A I don't recall specific motivations or intentions of those who weren't magged 
3 to come in being relayed to the President. There were conversations I know that 
4 happened about why the rally space wasn't filled, why we didn't have max participation, 
5 but I don't recall if he was aware of the specific intentions or limitations of those who 
6 were watching the rally from the Ellipse --or watching the rally from The Mall. 
7 Q Okay. So are you aware of whether or not the President was ever told that 
8 there were people outside of the gates that had flags or pocketknives or bear spray or 
9 other items that wouldn't make it through the magnetometers? 
10 
11 
12 A 
Q 
A Not prior to the rally. 
During the rally, do you know if he was made aware of that? 
No, that would have had to go up on his speech, and he --we never put 
13 messages up on his speech. His speech --the podium that his speech would go up on 
14 just had the contents of the speech. We didn't have any other means to relay a 
15 message to him when he was giving a speech. 
16 Q Yeah. Okay. And how about after the speech, do you know whether 
17 anybody told him about all the weapons that were --or the people that didn't come in 
18 potentially having prohibited items? 
19 A I don't recall specifically. 
20 Mr- Okay. Thank you. 
21 BYMR.-
22 
23 
24 
25 Q It's almost 1 o'clock. I think we have one more question on this. 
The next message that follows is: "Poor Max got chewed out." 
Who chewed --who's Max, first of all? 
A Max is Max Miller, who's the advance individual that I had previously  1 mentioned. 
2 
3 Q 
A 91 
Who chewed him out and why? 
Max had some spirited discussions with the President and the chief of staff 
4 prior to the rally beginning about participation for people and why we didn't build out the 
5 stage a certain way. 
6 I don't recall whether Max is the one that designed it the way that it was. I --but 
7 Max was an individual that was frequently present for rallies on the campaign trail, so he 
8 was a natural person and circuit to go to when things weren't necessarily going the way 
9 that we had anticipated or planned. And Max is somebody that has always shown 
10 demonstrated effort to resolve things. So conversations were had with him, because 
11 he's somebody that had a lot of insight and experience working rallies and logistical 
12 build-outs for them. 
13 Q Understood. 
14 Mr. - So, Mr. Passantino, I do have a few more questions on the message 
15 that follows. It's a slightly different topic. If you'd like to break now, we can do that. 
16 If you'd like to keep going for a few minutes, up to you as well. 
17 Mr. Passantino. Yeah. I mean, I guess 1 o'clock is sort of a good breaking point. 
18 And if you've got something substantive to still do, we might as well take a break here as 
19 well as anywhere. 
20 Mr. Yep. That's fine with me. So why don't we go off the record 
21 then. 
22 [Recess.]  92 
1 
2 [1:35 p.m.] 
3 Mr. - Let's go back on the record. It is 1:35 on February the 23rd, and 
4 we're resuming the transcribed interview of Ms. Cassidy Hutchinson. 
5 So we left off on exhibit No. 6, page 6. I ask that we bring that up again. These 
6 are text messages exchanged with Tony Ornate on January the 6th. 
7 And just as a procedural matter, some of these --we don't have timestamps for all 
8 of them. Some of them may be particularly important that we go to those timestamps, 
9 and I know there's a way to do that on iPhones. 
10 If we need to go back and get particular timestamps, is that something that we 
11 can work with you, Mr. Passantino, to get? 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 Mr. Passantino. It is, yes. 
Mr. - Okay. Excellent. 
Mr. Passantino. We can do a little thing where we slide it. 
Ms. Hutchinson. I'm sorry I didn't include them originally. 
Mr.- No, it's quite all right. You do have to do that slide thing. So 
17 we'll specify the messages that we'd like that information on. 
18 BYMR.-
19 Q But returning to these messages on page 6 of exhibit 6, the last one on the 
20 page says: He kept mentioning OTR to Capitol before he took the stage. 
21 
22 
23 
24 And I'll give you a minute. It looks like you're looking for those messages as well. 
A I'm sorry. I don't have them up here yet. 
Mr. Passantino. We have them. 
Mr- Okay. And I would just note for the record as well that Ms. Luria, 
25 a select committee member, has joined us.  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 Mrs. Luria. Thank you. 
Q 
A 
Q BYMR.-
All right. Do you see the message I'm talking about? 
Yes, sir. 
Okay. Who is the "he" in that message when it says: "He also kept 
6 mentioning OTR to Capitol before he took the stage"? 
7 
8 
9 mean? 
10 A 
Q 
A The "he" would be Mr. Trump. 
What did he say --or, excuse me, before we get to that, what does OTR 
Off the record. So that's used to describe in advance terminology, not --I 
11 have never worked in an advance operation, but I'm familiar enough after the past 93 
12 campaign cycle that OTR refers to an off-the-record movement, which logistically is easier 
13 to execute than --oftentimes easier to execute than if it's a preplanned movement, just 
14 because you don't have as many moving parts going into it. 
15 Q So is it fair to say off the record would be like a spontaneous or unplanned 
16 activity? 
17 A It's fair to say in some --in some circumstances it is. In others, it could just 
18 be something as simple as it's not on the official schedule, but it was a surprise 
19 movement. For instance, when he would stop at a pizza restaurant on the campaign 
20 trail, we knew that we were going to do that. It wasn't spontaneous. But we didn't 
21 put it on the official schedule, because we didn't want to see public, just for the sake of 
22 surprising people that were going to be there. 
23 Q Okay. And how did you use that term in this message: He kept 
24 mentioning OTR to Capitol before he took the stage? 
25 A In this context, it was more of if we were going to go up to the Capitol, it was  94 
1 going to logistically have to be an off-the-record movement, something that wasn't 
2 publicly released, just for the sake of crowd control and asset organization. But I didn't 
3 have my hands dipped in that, the planning of that too much. I just knew that 
4 logistically, it wasn't going to be possible that day. If that answers your question. 
5 
6 Q It does, yes, thank you. 
It says: He also kept mentioning it before he took the stage. So can you tell us 
7 what you remember the President saying about this movement to the Capitol before he 
8 took the stage? 
9 A He wanted to make sure that we had exhausted all of our resources and our 
10 communications with Secret Service, advance staff, other law enforcement individuals 
11 that were present in the area and at agencies, to ensure that we truly did not have the 
12 assets to transport him to the Capitol that day in case there was a breakthrough of, 
13 actually, we might be able to logistically make it happen by utilizing XYZ methods. 
14 Those conversations had transpired probably the day before. We exhausted all 
15 of our resources and communication on that front and it logistically just wasn't going to 
16 be possible with the number of people that we were expecting to be in Washington, D.C., 
17 on the 6th. But before he took the stage, he just wanted to ensure that we had all those 
18 appropriate conversations before he actually did not go to the Capitol. 
19 Q So, in other words, the President wanted to make sure this is an absolute no, 
20 you can't do this, Mr. President, before he was willing to accept that he wasn't going to 
21 the Capitol that day. Is that fair? 
22 
23 A 
Q Before he was willing --yes, that's a fair assessment. 
And when he mentioned this, was he talking about going with a crowd of 
24 people to the Capitol or was he talking about going to visit Senator McConnell, for 
25 example?  95 
1 A He was talking about taking a small circle of staff that --it's a small circle of 
2 staff that always travels with him up to the Capitol that day, not necessarily to travel with 
3 the crowd, to walk up with them. He wanted to motorcade separately up but not --not 
4 in light of traveling with anybody specific, like a specific individual or individuals. 
5 Q Did he, being the President, say what he wanted to do when he got to the 
6 Capitol on the 6th if he was going to go? 
7 A Not that I was privy to. 
8 Q Did you ever hear anybody talking about it? Even if you didn't hear that 
9 firsthand, did you hear it through somebody else? 
10 
11 
12 A 
Q 
A The President's trip to the Capitol that day? 
Correct. 
No. I mean, there was speculation amongst several individuals about, if we 
13 were to go up to the Capitol what we would do, what our plan of action would be, but 
14 there wasn't any definitive plan in place. The people involved in those conversations 
15 knew pretty much from the onset that it wasn't going to logistically be possible. 
16 Q Understood. But as far as that speculation or possibilities of what could 
17 happen if the President went to the Capitol, what were those discussions? 
18 A I think what I'm privy to is more from an operational standpoint, would he 
19 want to go sit in the gallery? Would he want to --where would we logistically put him if 
20 we were able to find the assets and resources to transport him to the Capitol? 
21 You know, speculation --Mr. Ornate at one point a couple days beforehand had 
22 asked me what office spaces that we would have available, if I had talked to anybody, any 
23 of the Members in leadership if we could possibly use their places just in case 
24 something --there were to be a breakthrough that happened. 
25 But, again, this --it's not atypical of Mr. Trump to want to explore all options on  96 
1 the table to make sure that we were executing what he wanted in the appropriate 
2 manner. 
3 Q Okay. And were you aware of any discussions about the President going to 
4 the Capitol and giving a speech, another speech to supporters or giving comments to 
5 supporters, even if not a formal speech? 
6 A There were ideas discussed, but nothing that was ever legitimately 
7 entertained because we knew of the restrictions that we were operating under that day. 
8 
9 
10 Q 
Q Now, if we go to the next -­
BY MR.-: 
Well, just before you leave that. Ms. Hutchinson, again, when your text 
11 here says, "He also kept mentioning OTR to Capitol," did you hear him say that in the tent 
12 before the speech, I want to go to the Capitol or what are we doing about the Capitol? 
13 A I overheard him ask --Mr. Ornate was not at the rally site that day. He 
14 stayed up in the West Wing. I heard him ask, has anybody --this is not verbatim, but I 
15 heard him ask something along the lines of has anybody reconferred with 
16 Mr. Orna---with Tony that we can't do the Capitol? Can we --can we make one more 
17 call just to make sure we can't do the Capitol? 
18 It wasn't anything of like substantive intent on his end. It was just following up 
19 on conversations that he'd previously had in the days leading up to the 6th. 
20 Q Got you. And when you say "kept mentioning," that suggests that there 
21 are several comments like that. Do you recall it being brought up, you know, more than 
22 once? 
23 
24 A 
Q More than once, but I can't --I don't recall the specific number of times. 
Okay. And I get the sense from this --sorry, Ms. Hutchinson, go ahead. 
25 didn't mean to interrupt you.  97 
1 A You're fine. I'm sorry if I interrupted you. 
2 In --in the context that he's saying this, and it wasn't anything that was --and I'm 
3 trying to be as deliberate as I can just because I'm used to the conversational method that 
4 people would invoke. But it wasn't anything that was overly structured. It was just his 
5 stream of consciousness as we were waiting for songs to wrap and --or for a speech to 
6 wrap. 
7 You know, when you're behind --when you're backstage at a rally like that, you 
8 can't hear what's going on in front of you. So I don't know if we were waiting for two 
9 more songs to wrap before his entry song would play, but it wasn't anything that was like 
10 a structured conversation. It was more of a conversation filler. He just said what was 
11 on his mind at that moment. 
12 Q Yeah, I totally appreciate that. I get the sense that there's a lot going on. 
13 But is it fair to say that it was your impression he wanted to go to the Capitol, that that 
14 was his desire? 
15 A Yes, but that's --again, it's not anything that --from my point of view and 
16 the information that I can offer you all, that's not anything that I don't think has been 
17 previously reported or discussed. You know, we discussed options like that that day or 
18 the days leading up to January 6th. It wasn't anything groundbreaking or new that 
19 happened that morning. 
20 Q I understand. I just want to be clear. Was it your impression from those 
21 comments that he made that he wanted to march to or go to the Capitol after he finished 
22 his speech at the Ellipse? 
23 
24 
25 A Yes, sir. 
Q Okay. That's --I really appreciate that. Thank you. 
Mr.- So Mr. Ornate-- 1 
2 
3 Ms. Cheney. Sarr~ 
Mr. - Yes, I'm sorry. 
Ms. Cheney. That's okay. 98 
4 Ms. Hutchinson, you mentioned that there were sort of different possibilities, and 
5 understanding that there weren't sort of definite plans it sounds like, could you just talk a 
6 little bit more --you mentioned, for example, Mr. Meadows asked you if there was 
7 someplace where the President could sit or an office. Could you give us a little bit more 
8 detail about that? 
9 Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah. So Mr. Orna---sorry. I'm trying to regain my train of 
10 thought here. Mr. Ornate had actually --you know, Mr. Ornate had previously been the 
11 head of Mr. Trump's Secret Service detail, so he was familiar with the Capitol from 
12 working State of the Unions, State of the Union addresses. So he knew well enough that 
13 we had previously used Mr. McCarthy's office space. 
14 So he was wondering at one point if he could possibly, like, use that as a staff hold 
15 area, knowing that we couldn't use the cloakroom. We weren't sure logistically where 
16 else we could really use at that point. 
17 But, again, there weren't serious conversations happening where I had elevated it 
18 to Leader McCarthy. Because we knew of the logistical concerns, there's more --what 
19 options are on --in case we can figure out a way to get up there, what options do we 
20 have and how quickly would we be able to move forward with them. 
21 Ms. Cheney. Okay. And you mentioned the possibility of sort of walking 
22 through could he sit in the gallery, so sort of the options you guys had talked about, 
23 possibly a leadership office, a gallery. Sounds like you ruled out the cloakroom. Is that 
24 an accurate description? 
25 Ms. Hutchinson. Yes, ma'am.  1 
2 Ms. Cheney. And why did you rule out the cloakroom? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I mean, just generally speaking, for a staff hold area, that's 99 
3 not --wouldn't logistically be possible on our end. Not even neutralizing the restrictions 
4 of the physical space at the Capitol and who has jurisdiction over that area at the Capitol, 
5 it just --we would have needed a bigger space for staff to hold if we were going to bring a 
6 secure package of staff up to the Capitol that day. 
7 Ms. Cheney. And so this would be for a staff hold area, not necessarily for the 
8 President to hold in?  100 
1 
2 [1:49 p.m.] 
3 Ms. Hutchinson. Right. Yeah, we very, very broadly had discussed what his 
4 plan would be to go up there. Now, it could've been discussed more in depth that I have 
5 not been made aware of or wasn't privy to at the time. But what I was privy to at the 
6 time was, you know, what I had previously said about if he would sit in the gallery, if he 
7 would visit Mr. McCarthy's office at one point. 
8 Again, I don't have insight or anything to offer in terms of any serious discussions 
9 that he may or may not have had about attending or going up to the Capitol that day. 
10 But what I know is just more from like the logistical standpoint of communicating with 
11 Mr. Ornate. That way I could do my best to keep it off of Mr. Meadows' plate, knowing 
12 how much he was dealing with at that time. 
13 Ms. Cheney. Okay. And were you aware of any discussion about whether the 
14 President would --would speak? 
15 Ms. Hutchinson. Not that I can recall. You know, he --you know, not that I can 
16 definitively recall. 
17 Ms. Cheney. That you could recall at all? 
18 Ms. Hutchinson. No. I mean, I'm trying to --I'm not trying to be unhelpful. 
19 I'm trying to answer your questions as best I can. 
20 
21 Ms. Cheney. No, I understand. 
Ms. Hutchinson. But I can't --1 can't recall a specific conversation that I 
22 overheard or that I could definitively tell you that he had an idea of what he wanted to do 
23 up there. 
24 Ms. Cheney. Okay. And do you know if--I'm sorry? 
25 Ms. Hutchinson. If it comes to me, I'm more than happy to share. I'm --you  101 
1 know, I'm trying to answer your question the best that I can. I just want to make sure 
2 that I am not speculating or regurgitating conversations that I may have overheard. 
3 I --I don't remember hearing anything specifically that day or the days leading up 
4 to it about his intentions of going to the Capitol, whether he wanted to make a speech 
5 outside, as I believe-had mentioned, or if he wanted to make a speech on the 
6 House floor, or just have his presidency felt at the Capitol. I can't recall definitively if 
7 that was ever something that I had firsthand insight or knowledge of at the time. 
8 Ms. Cheney. Okay. And I appreciate that. And I understand trying to recall 
9 from, you know, over a year ago is challenging, and I appreciate your efforts. 
10 Do you know if anybody had reached out, potentially even if it was preliminarily, 
11 to Leader McConnell about this? 
12 
13 
14 Ms. Hutchinson. About us going to the Capitol? 
Ms. Cheney. Yes. 
Ms. Hutchinson. I --I don't remember. I remember speaking with Ms. Sharon 
15 Soderstorm ---strom --
16 Ms. Cheney. Uh-huh. 
17 Ms. Hutchinson. --Mr. McConnell's chief of staff in his leadership office, in the 
18 days leading up to the 6th. That all --I never communicated --I don't even have --I 
19 don't have her personal --I don't have her cell phone in my personal phone. So all that 
20 would've been on my work devices, which I don't have access to anymore. I don't --I 
21 don't believe that Sharon and I ever discussed us going up to the Capitol that day. 
22 You know, at this point, Mr. Meadows and Mr. McConnell seldom spoke. Sharon 
23 and I had kept in touch. I wouldn't say frequent touch or --but we spoke when 
24 necessary for the bosses. I --again, I don't have access to my work devices. I don't --I 
25 don't think that her and I had conversations about whether we're --Mr. Trump was going  1 to go to the Capitol and, if he was, what that was going to look like. 
2 I do recall a conversation that we had about the 6th in general, and if 
3 Mr. Meadows wanted to connect with Mr. McConnell prior to the 6th. And I believe 
4 Mr. Meadows reached out to her after that conversation. 
5 
6 
7 
8 Ms. Cheney. Okay. All right. Thank you very much. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Thank you. 
BYMR 
Q Ms. Hutchinson, I imagine, but I don't want to assume, that you weren't 
9 having these discussions kind of of your own choice, not that you didn't want to have 102 
10 them, but somebody's asking you to --to figure out possibilities if the President were to 
11 go to the Capitol. Who were involved in these discussions about the President's 
12 potential trip to the Capitol on January 6th? 
13 A Just for my own clarity, are you asking for further clarification from the 
14 conversation that I had with Mr. Ornate or just an expansion on those conversations? 
15 Q Expansion. So, you know, you mentioned reaching out to the 
16 chief --Mr. McConnell's chief of staff, as well as others, and I assume that there's --it's 
17 probably not just you deciding to make these calls and try to figure out what would 
18 happen if the President goes to the Capitol. So who else is involved in that? 
19 A Mr. Meadows and I had several conversations about that, which wasn't out 
20 of the ordinary for the role that I played with him and the role that I filled for him. 
21 Other than Mr. Ornate, I --I tried to keep my communications with staff at a very 
22 minimum level during all of this, just knowing the gravity of all these decisions being 
23 made. And I didn't want to speak out of touch and relay any messages that weren't 
24 accurate on the official White House side, and I didn't want to stir the pot on Capitol Hill 
25 to make them think that we were actually trying to plan to go to the Capitol.  103 
1 You know, on our end, we were trying to logistically figure out what was possible 
2 at points. The circle of people that I discussed these matters with was very, very 
3 small --Mr. Meadows, Mr. Ornate --and I --I don't recall anybody else specifically right 
4 now. 
5 I know it was discussed on the plane flying back from Georgia the night of January 
6 4th, but, again, very broad discussions that aren't consequential or add anything to what 
7 I've already stated about these matters. And, you know, communications with 
8 Mr. McConnell's chief of staff weren't me reaching out because Mr. Meadows asked me 
9 to reach out because we were intending to go to the Capitol. It was just me and his 
10 chief of staff --myself and his chief of staff would just communicate infrequently but 
11 enough that there were rumor --the rumor mill was starting to go about these matters 
12 and just to kind of clarify anything that --anything she had questions about. But 
13 I --again, I don't think that her and I talked specifically about us having plans to go up for 
14 the 6th. You know, we weren't communicating with Mr. McConnell's staff on that level 
15 at this point. 
16 Q Okay. Did Mr. Meadows ask you not to speak about this issue widely 
17 within the White House? 
18 A Well, I just always tried to use my best judgment and keep things as quiet as 
19 possible just because, you know, if there's --I think in any congressional office and for 
20 Presidential administration, there's always ideas being floated around, and it's damaging, 
21 I think, for the office and the credibility of the office to have things get stirred up that are 
22 out of touch or might not be the reality of the situation happening. So, you know, 
23 I --Mr. Meadows never told me to keep a close hold on it. I just kind of knew to, based 
24 off of like my insight into these --into the subject matter. 
25 Q Understood. If you could bring back exhibit No. 6 again, please. The  104 
1 messages that follow up --and to be clear, page 7 now of exhibit No. 6. 
2 So the following messages --excuse me --the messages that follow come after the 
3 message about the OTR to the Capitol, and Mr. Ornate writes, "Bobby will tell him no. 
4 It's not safe to do. No assets available to safely do it." And then you respond, "I don't 
5 think it's been elevated to Bobby yet. Wait P or E." And he responds, "Engel." 
6 So I believe this is the discussion that we've already had, but can you just explain, 
7 to the extent there's any differences, what this series of messages is? 
8 A The assets, I think, unless you need me to regurgitate it for the record, I've 
9 already, I think, exhausted the knowledge sight --and insight I have on that just in terms 
10 of --
11 
12 Q 
A Okay. 
--we didn't have logistical crowd control and intersection control which 
13 didn't have physical assets and security assets to make the motorcade movement from 
14 the Ellipse to the Capitol. 
15 Now, when I go in to say "I don't think it's been elevated to Bobby yet, wait P or 
16 E," that's again just --and, again, I apologize for not including timestamps on this, but this 
17 conversation, I believe, happened over the course of maybe 10 minutes, and I'm 
18 estimating, but it was --we were texting fairly quickly. And --
19 
20 Mr. Passantino. But you can tell it was between 12:40 and --
Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah. And whatever the end of the rally was. But when I 
21 say it hasn't been elevated to Bobby yet, Bobby Engel was the head of Mr. Trump's Secret 
22 Service detail. It had been brought --elevated to Bobby Peede who was the --I believe 
23 he was --I don't remember the title he had, but he was in charge of the advance portion 
24 on the White House on that day. So he had discu---Mr. Trump had discussed the 
25 movement with Bobby Peede before he took the stage, but Bobby Engel would've been  105 
1 the one to actually crack down and say no, because he is the Secret Service 
2 representative on behalf of the President and the Secret Service. 
3 Q Do you know whether Bobby Engel actually told the President no as a result 
4 of these inquiries? 
5 
6 A After the rally had commenced, he did. 
Q When was that and where was that? 
7 A When --I don't know the specific time that the rally finished and he walked 
8 off the stage. Sometime after 12:45 and before 2:49. But he had asked Bobby walking 
9 to the motorcade. Mr. Trump was getting in the Beast, or the Presidential limo, and he 
10 had asked Mr. Engel, and Mr. Engel, I believe, along the lines of something like we can 
11 talk about this in the car. And the conversation happened in the car, as far as I know. 
12 don't know if they had another conversation when they got back upstairs, but --
13 Q Okay. And the conversation that happened in the car --I'm sorry, go 
14 ahead. 
15 A It's okay. The walk from the stage to the car was maybe --maybe a 
16 hundred feet. It wasn't --it wasn't long. So there wouldn't have been ample time for 
17 him to raise it with Bobby then. 
18 Q Okay. So the President gets into the Beast, Mr. Engel says something 
19 about, let's talk about it in the car. 
20 
21 
22 
23 And you did not travel back in the Beast. Is that correct? 
A That's correct. 
Q Okay. Did you ever find out --I'm sorry. Go ahead. 
A No, it's okay. I'm sorry. I traveled back --we had Mr. Meadows' car's 
24 manifest in the motorcade, so I traveled back in his limo. 
25 Q Got it. Did you ever find out what happened with that conversation in the  106 
1 Beast between the President and Mr. Engel? 
2 A Just that Mr. Engel had relayed the message that him and Mr. Ornate had 
3 discussed previously and knowing there was no --there were no developments that 
4 would've changed the guidance he was given before the rally had begun, that we didn't 
5 have the assets available, and that was just reconveyed to the President. 
6 Q Is it your understanding that the President accepted that, then, that he 
7 would not be going to the Capitol that day? 
8 A I think Mr. Trump --Mr. Trump accepted it from Mr. Engel, yes. He still was 
9 frustrated that we couldn't figure out a way to get up there, but those frustrations were 
10 aired for a couple days leading up to the rally. There wasn't anything new that 
11 happened in the --to my knowledge, there was nothing that happened in the motorcade 
12 from the Ellipse back up to the White House that was out of touch or a new development 
13 from the conversations that had ensued in the days prior. 
14 Q Did the President reraise the issue of going to the Capitol after he returned 
15 to the White House from the rally on the Ellipse? 
16 A Not to my knowledge. He --there was a discussion that he had with 
17 Mr. Meadows about potentially sending Mr. Meadows to the Capitol as a surrogate, in his 
18 place, if it wasn't possible, but to my knowledge, once we got back to the White 
19 House --now, there could've been other discussion, but I wasn't privy to anything or him 
20 pushing the discussion any further once he was back inside the West Wing, in terms of 
21 him going up to the Capitol, if that answers your question. 
22 Q It does. When did the conversation about potentially sending 
23 Mr. Meadows as a surrogate to the Capitol occur? 
24 A I don't know when the initial conversation occurred. I don't know if it was 
25 discussed at the end of December or if it was discussed in early January. The first time I  107 
1 remember hearing about it was January --the night of January 5th. 
2 had --Mr. Meadows was walking to his car that night, and I had essentially just asked him, 
3 we're not going --you --we, meaning you and I, are not going to the Capitol tomorrow, 
4 correct? Well, let's just see. And I took it as I should follow up on this tomorrow. 
5 So when Mr. Meadows stepped out of the control vehicle that he was in at the 
6 rally, I had reraised my conversation with Mr. Ornate with him, and he asked if I was --if I 
7 would be willing to figure out if him and I would be able to go up to the Capitol that day. 
8 And I ran it through the appropriate channels of communication with our Secret Service 
9 leadership, and it wasn't, which I relayed to the chief of staff. 
10 Q Do you know why it wasn't approved or decided that you would go to the 
11 Capitol that day? 
12 A Same reasons that it wasn't approved for Mr. Trump. We didn't have the 
13 security assets to appropriately block off the intersections and manage crowd control. 
14 Q At the point of that conversation, had the violence already begun at the 
15 Capitol, to your knowledge? 
16 A I believe that --I'm trying to think about the timeline of this in my head. 
17 The rally was still underway at this point. So knowing what I know about when people 
18 had begun the walk to the Capitol, I don't --I don't believe that there was any --I don't 
19 believe they had breached the Capitol security --now, I could be wrong on this, but I 
20 don't believe they had breached --
21 
22 Mr. Passantino. Just give him what you know. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah. I don't believe they had breached the Capitol security 
23 perimeter at this point when the rally was still underway. 
24 
25 Mr. Passantino. They can figure that out. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah.  108 
1 M- Okay. No, that's very helpful, though. That context of it 
2 happening during the rally is very helpful. 
3 So going on with these messages, you say --
4 Mr.- Before you leave that,--
5 Mr.- Yeah, I'm sorry. 
6 BYMR.-
7 Q Just to go back, Ms. Hutchinson, again, to be precise, did you indicate that 
8 you heard, yourself, the President coming off the stage say something to Bobby Engel 
9 about, hey, can we go to the Capitol, or something like that, or was that relayed to you by 
10 someone else? 
11 A I had heard him talk to Mr. Meadows about going up to the Capitol, and I 
12 had --Mr. Meadows and I had a conversation prior to this saying that this is a matter that 
13 he should discuss with Mr. Engel at this point. And Mr. Meadows had relayed that to 
14 Mr. Trump, and at that point, Mr. Trump had turned to Mr. Engel. 
15 Again, I don't know --I hope I had disclosed this, and if I didn't prior to saying it --I 
16 don't know verbatim how Bobby phrased the verdict on this and how Mr. Trump's exact 
17 response in the motorcade driving back up to the White House. But I overheard 
18 Mr. Meadows tell him to discuss it with Mr. Engel. Mr. Trump turned to Mr. Engel, and 
19 then they got in the motorcade together. 
20 Q Yeah. I totally appreciate that you weren't in the car and don't know about 
21 the conversation between the President and Bobby Engel. But it sounds like you were 
22 present for the President --again, after the speech --raising the idea with Meadows, you 
23 overhear that Meadows suggesting it's --deferring him to Bobby Engel and then they get 
24 in the car? 
25 A Correct. And that was for Mr. Trump's movement to the Capitol.  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q Gotcha. 
And, again --
Yeah. Again, just --sorry, Ms. Hutchinson, go ahead. 
It's okay. Thank you. 
No. We're just trying to pinpoint the difference between the things that 109 
6 you hear yourself versus what was told to you. And I don't want to sound repetitive, but 
7 sometimes it's helpful to try to pinpoint what you heard versus what others relayed to 
8 you. 
9 A No, I understand. And I just --I want to make sure I am being clear for the 
10 record too. The conversations that ensued at that point weren't anything --it was --I 
11 had perceived that as more of a --which Mr. Trump is known to do, is just continue to 
12 follow up on subject matter that he, in his mind, didn't think that there was a final stamp 
13 of a no approval on. It wasn't him trying to push the issue further. It was just, can we 
14 please reconfirm that this is the case. 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 Q Got it. Got it. I appreciate that. Thank you. 
Mr. - One final question before --
Ms. Cheney. Hey, -I have a --
Mr- Go ahead, Ms. Cheney. I'm sorry. 
Ms. Cheney. That's all right. 
So, Ms. Hutchinson, was Mr. Meadows in the Beast for that conversation? 
Ms. Hutchinson. No, he was not. 
Ms. Cheney. So who --who relayed to you the conversation that happened in 
23 the Beast? 
24 Ms. Hutchinson. I just know that Mr. Engel had said that we'll talk about this on 
25 the car ride back up or something of that iteration. It's not verbatim. And then once  110 
1 the motorcade had arrived back on West Exec, and we had all made the movement back 
2 into the West Wing, I had resettled in the desk, in my --at my desk in the main chief of 
3 staff office area, and then walked across the hallway after a couple minutes to see 
4 Mr. Ornate. 
5 And I just had a brief conversation with him, do you know if he --if this issue was 
6 resolved and it's closed, so I don't have to follow up with Mr. Meadows about this 
7 anymore. And he said, yeah, all good. Him and --him and mogul (ph) talked about 
8 it --or sorry --him and POTUS talked about it. 
9 Ms. Cheney. So Engel and POTUS talked about it? 
10 Ms. Hutchinson. Correct. Mr. Ornate had relayed to me, nope, all good, chief 
11 doesn't need to take further action on this. Him, meaning POTUS, and Bobby had 
12 discussed this in the car, had talked about this, had closed this out. 
13 Ms. Cheney. Okay. And then when you mentioned that Mr. Meadows had 
14 stepped out of the control vehicle and re raised the issue of whether he could 
15 figure --whether you could figure out if you and Mr. Meadows could go to the Capitol, 
16 when is that? 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 Ms. Hutchinson. During the rally --
Ms. Cheney. I mean, when did he --okay. 
Ms. Hutchinson. I'm trying --
Ms. Cheney. Sorry. I meant, when did he step out of the control vehicle? 
Ms. Hutchinson. All right. For you --and this is --this is where I wish I had 
22 included the timestamps. Not that I don't have a specific time, but it was somewhere in 
23 the --in the thread of me and Mr. Ornate, because Mr. Ornate and I had sent these texts 
24 over the course of the rally. Maybe close to 1 o'clock. 
25 Ms. Cheney. Okay. I was actually sort of just even --even more broadly trying  111 
1 to understand, when you said he stepped out of the control vehicle, was that on the way 
2 to the rally, when you arrived there? When was --was this on the way back? 
3 Ms. Hutchinson. No. This was as the rally was underway, and he had 
4 stepped --I mean, he was in and out of the control vehicle the entire time. So it 
5 was --we were at the rally site, perhaps halfway through the rally, he had stepped out 
6 and we had the conversation. 
7 
8 
9 Ms. Cheney. Okay. So the President was still speaking? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Correct. 
Ms. Cheney. Okay. And then in terms of the explanation for why Mr. Meadows 
10 could not go up to the Capitol, can you talk about that a little bit more? 
11 Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah. Very similar to the reason that Mr. Trump wasn't able 
12 to go up to the Capitol that day, which was he --Mr. Meadows had a security detail, as 
13 does every chief of staff, but just because of the volume of people that were present in 
14 the area that day, we would have not needed the number of resources that would have 
15 required to move the President from the White House to the Capitol, but we would have 
16 needed similar resources, that we just didn't have --the Secret Service and D.C. Police 
17 didn't have the bandwidth to do just to make a --one movement from the White House 
18 to the Capitol for the chief of staff to go. It just, number one, it wasn't worth it to 
19 stretch their resources and assets that thin, but it also would've logistically almost been 
20 impossible to make it happen. 
21 And we elevated it to Secret Service leadership. I had discussions with --not 
22 with Bobby but his counterpart that was the head of Mr. Meadows' detail, and we just 
23 couldn't make it happen that day. 
24 
25 Ms. Cheney. And who is the head of Mr. Meadows' detail? 
Ms. Hutchinson. His name is  1 Ms. Cheney. And normally, as you mentioned, when the President travels 
2 someplace by motorcade or the Vice President travels, they shut down intersections, 
3 don't go --don't stop at traffic lights. Is that normally the case for the chief of staff? 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 Ms. Hutchinson. No. 
Ms. Cheney. Okay. 
The chief of staff has a 112 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 Mr. Passantino. Congresswoman, if I can interrupt. And I --is there anything in 
18 this that we need to be sensitive about classification on for the record? Like, is there 
19 anything in --what you just described is all open source? 
20 Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah. I mean, I don't think I could describe it any further than 
21 I have, but --
22 Mr. Passantino. I just want to be careful. Obviously, it's not about --but how 
23 they treat the record might be impacted. So I just want to be super careful. 
24 Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah. I mean, I'm not comfortable further elaborating just 
25 because of intelligence and -- 113 
1 Ms. Cheney. Yeah, I appreciate that and certainly would not want to say 
2 anything that would get into the area of protection details that would be of concern. 
3 I was just trying to understand, in terms of the resources necessary for the 
4 President to travel to the Capitol would've been significantly different from the resources 
5 necessary for the chief of staff to travel to the Capitol. Is that correct? 
6 
7 Ms. Hutchinson. On the average day. On the average day, that's correct. 
Ms. Cheney. Well, are there --are you aware of any circumstances in which the 
8 chief of staff traveling alone has anywhere close to the security package the President or 
9 the Vice President would have? 
10 Ms. Hutchinson. Not anywhere close, but again, you would increase his assets if 
11 there's a heightened security concern at the time. 
12 Ms. Cheney. Right. Okay. And then are you aware of any discussions with 
13 either Pat Cipollone or Pat Philbin about the President's potential travel to the Capitol? 
14 Ms. Hutchinson. I am aware that they discussed these matters with the chief of 
15 staff. I wasn't privy to specific conversations that they had with the chief of staff and 
16 the President together. 
17 Ms. Cheney. Did they have those discussions? 
18 Ms. Hutchinson. I only --I only can speak to what I know, and what I know is 
19 that they did raise concerns with Mr. Meadows personally. You know, I don't want to 
20 speculate how and when it was elevated to a more thorough conversation with the 
21 President in the days leading up to or on January 6th --
22 Ms. Cheney. Okay. 
23 Ms. Hutchinson. --just because I wasn't privy or present for that discussion with 
24 them. 
25 Ms. Cheney. Okay. And what were the concerns that they raised with  114 
1 Mr. Meadows? 
2 Ms. Hutchinson. Their concerns were pretty --to my --the extent to what I 
3 know, the conversations that they had with Mr. Meadows was any potential legal 
4 implications that could arise if Mr. Trump went to the Capitol that day. 
5 Ms. Cheney. And what would those legal implications have been? 
6 Ms. Hutchinson. I don't know. I didn't entertain the conversation further on 
7 my end. That was a conversation that happened behind closed doors. 
8 Ms. Cheney. And how did you become aware of the conversation? 
9 Ms. Hutchinson. So, when Mr. Meadows' door was shut, that was an indicator to 
10 most people in the West Wing that he was in another meeting, which, you know, I know I 
11 discussed earlier, like, the parameters and limitations of me and Mr. Meadows' scheduler, 
12 Eliza's role, but if his door was shut, normally a principal would pull me aside and say: 
13 You know, this is important. Can you relay X, Y and Z? Or can you help us get in there? 
14 Can you pull him out for a second? 
15 So, day before, I remember Mr. Cipollone --I don't remember whether Mr. Philbin 
16 was present or not, but I remember Mr. Cipollone pulling me aside and saying: Hey, you 
17 know, can I grab Mark for a couple minutes before he leaves today. I want to talk to 
18 him about going up to the Capitol. I don't --I don't know if he's still thinking about this 
19 or talking about it, but, you know, I think that we --I think that him and I should have a 
20 conversation about this. 
21 And I had said: Of course, you know. He's just on a call at the time. Or he 
22 wasn't --I believe he was on a call at the time. I don't know who he was speaking with, 
23 and I said: You can just go in, Pat. I don't --I don't care. It doesn't need to be 
24 something that's scheduled; you don't have to go through Eliza for that. 
25 Ms. Cheney. Okay. And did you have any further discussions with  1 Mr. Meadows about Mr. Cipollone's concerns? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Not that I can recall about Mr. Cipollone's concerns, no. 
Ms. Cheney. About --about any concerns? 115 
2 
3 
4 Ms. Hutchinson. I'm trying to think. Mr. Meadows was aware from myself and 
5 others that there were security concerns and legal concerns if we were to make a 
6 movement, either me and Mr. Meadows --well, Mr. Meadows' movement that I would 
7 have attended just by nature of my role, or if Mr. Trump had gone up. 
8 I know Mr. Meadows was aware of the concerns and possible opinions 
9 surrounding that, but I don't --I don't know if it was --I don't --I don't have a readout or 
10 any recollection of my conversation with him about Mr. Cipollone specifically. 
11 Ms. Cheney. Okay. But Mr. Cipollone would not have been responsible for the 
12 President's security, right? 
13 
14 
15 Ms. Hutchinson. That's correct. 
Ms. Cheney. So his concerns were of a legal nature? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Right. As the --yeah, as the White House counsel, he 
16 didn't --he didn't have any insight on security concerns. 
17 
18 Ms. Cheney. Okay. 
Ms. Hutchinson. I mean, I'm sure he --I'm sure Mr. Cipollone cared about the 
19 security concerns --
20 
21 
22 
23 Ms. Cheney. Yes, yeah. 
Ms. Hutchinson. --but --
Ms. Cheney. But it wasn't his purview from the respect of the job responsibility? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I'm not --I'm not under the impression that he was raising it as 
24 a: We should talk about Mr. Ornate with this; I'm concerned about the assets available. 
25 It was more of a: Hey, I want to talk to Mr. Meadows --Mark about this because I think  116 
1 that this is a conversation that we should have based off of legal insight that I have of it. 
2 Ms. Cheney. And did he give you any more details about his legal concerns? 
3 Ms. Hutchinson. He did not. And I had implicit trust in Pat to only elevate what 
4 needed to be elevated to Mark. So I left it there, and I just let him handle the 
5 conversation from there. And I didn't see it was something that I needed to follow up 
6 with Mr. Cipollone about. 
7 Ms. Cheney. Okay. And what about Mr. Herschmann, were there any 
8 discussions with Mr. Herschmann about the possibility the President would go to the 
9 Capitol? 
10 Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Herschmann was frequently around for conversations by 
11 nature of his role and the trust that Mr. Trump had in him and the relationship that they 
12 had built over the course of a few years and prior to. But I hadn't been --that I can 
13 recall, I don't recall Mr. Herschmann elevating anything to me specifically at the time 
14 about going up to the Capitol. 
15 Ms. Cheney. Okay. And, in terms of when Mr. Cipollone pulled you aside and 
16 then went in to see Mr. Meadows, do you recall the date, or do you recall when that 
17 would've been? 
18 Ms. Hutchinson. I believe I said it was --previously said it was the 5th, and I 
19 apologize if I didn't, but it --it was the night before the rally. 
20 
21 
22 Ms. Cheney. The night before, okay. Okay. Thank you. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Thank you. 
Mr. Passantino. Mr.- before we go, and I apologize, I'm a little obsessed 
23 about this. Do you mind just marking where Ms. Hutchinson was talking about security 
24 protocols? Just like, I don't know if that's sensitive or not, but if you could just --until 
25 you're sure whether it is or isn't, I just don't want that getting out in the wild if it's not  117 
1 something she should've been talking about. I don't know if it's SB or if it's classified or 
2 whatever, but whatever you can do on your end with the transcript, just be aware of that. 
3 I have concerns that that might not be public information. 
4 Mr. - Understood. 
5 Mr. Passantino. Yep. 
6 Mr.- Yeah. We'll make a note in the record, and then we'll follow up 
7 afterwards as well. 
8 BY MR. 
9 Q To follow up on some of the questions that Ms. Cheney just asked you, 
10 Ms. Hutchinson, understanding you weren't in the room for the conversation between 
11 Mr. Cipollone and Mr. Meadows, but were you aware of any concerns that Mr. Cipollone 
12 or others had in the White House Counsel's Office about the theories circulating with 
13 respect to the Vice President's authority on January the 6th? 
14 A I was privy to --yes. I was privy to concerns that the White House 
15 Counsel's Office had expressed in the period of November to January, and the rally. You 
16 know, I'm not a lawyer, unfortunately, right now. I can't speak specifically to 
17 what --you know, it's a pretty broad question. There was a lot that was discussed in 
18 that period. So I apologize if I'm not giving a specific enough answer for you. 
19 Q No, that's quite all right. And you are far outnumbered by lawyers right 
20 now, and I apologize for that. But what was your understanding of those concerns that 
21 you just described and heard about, specifically with respect to the Vice President's 
22 authority on January the 6th? 
23 A Yeah. I mean, the only thing that I am comfortable speaking to, because I 
24 have the insight and remember specifically this, was just they wanted to make sure that 
25 they were looking out for the President's best interest and for the country's best interest  118 
1 and didn't want to step out of line from any --some of the theories that were being 
2 entertained or heard from other principals at the White House, whether it was, you 
3 know, another assistant to the President in terms of the commission title; anybody that 
4 was senior enough to elevate it to Mr. Trump, you know, they wanted to make sure that 
5 they had eyes and ears on as much as possible. That way, there wasn't something being 
6 elevated and worked through before we had gotten ahead of the game with having them 
7 involved. 
8 You know, at the time, there was a lot of cooks in the kitchen, and it's sometimes 
9 very difficult to have insight on everything. So they just wanted to make sure that, you 
10 know, there wasn't anything that was slipping through their grip and just asked for 
11 communication to remain frequent and thorough as much as possible and as often as 
12 possible and broad. It's a very intensive period that we were in there. So, if you have 
13 more specific questions, I'm happy to address them the best that I can. 
14 Q Sure. 
15 Mr- Mrs. Luria, I see you turned your camera on as well. 
16 Mrs. Luria. Yes. Well, I wanted to start by saying thank you for appearing 
17 before the committee and answering our questions today. And I want to go back a little 
18 bit. I've been following, you know, this detailed conversation specifically about the 
19 movement to the Capitol on January 6th. It was discussed at various times, but maybe I 
20 missed this. 
21 When was the first time that you're aware that you heard of a discussion? And, 
22 at one point, you mentioned something about late December. Can you confirm that? 
23 
24 
25 Ms. Hutchinson. Well, I don't --
Mr. Passantino. Let her --let her finish her question. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Okay.  119 
1 Mrs. Luria. Oh, no, that's fine. I mean, just in a --in a comment you made 
2 earlier, and that was in reference to maybe Mr. Meadows going to the Capitol, you 
3 mentioned the timeframe of late December. So just can you clarify for me when was 
4 the first time you were aware that the former President may go to the Capitol and also 
5 when you heard conversations about Mr. Meadows perhaps going to the Capitol? 
6 Ms. Hutchinson. The first time that I think I --my memory is a little foggy on this, 
7 but --I can't give a specific date of the first time that I remember Mr. Trump discussing 
8 going to the Capitol. But I group it with the same timeframe of when the rally 
9 discussions had started progressing, which was just, like, the logistical plan for that day. 
10 In terms of my conversation with Mr. Meadows about going up to the Capitol, on 
11 January 5th, I don't recall if it was in the afternoon or the early evening. We were there 
12 fairly late that night. We had one based on a conversation at some point late in the day 
13 on January 5th, about, well, maybe if it's really not possible to go to the Capitol with the 
14 President, maybe you and me could go. I said: We can work with those details when 
15 we have more information on the President's movements. 
16 And then, before he left that evening, had said: Well, let's figure out if you and I 
17 can go up if it's not possible tomorrow. And I said okay and didn't entertain the 
18 conversation until the 6th when he had said: Do you know if we're able to go up? And 
19 that's when I started conversations with Secret Service. 
20 Mrs. Luria. Okay. So can you also clarify for me a little bit more, when you say, 
21 sort of, the first time you heard of this idea was when the rally plans were becoming 
22 solidified? Do you have a rough idea of when that was? Was it the day before or prior 
23 to that? 
24 Ms. Hutchinson. I don't know. I mean, just roughly in my head, I know my 
25 scope of knowledge with the rally began at the end of December, and a few days had  120 
1 transpired before I had --and I say a few days, maybe 2 or 3, you know, the timeline isn't 
2 that long, but maybe 2 or 3 days before I had heard about conversations of us going up to 
3 the Capitol. 
4 And then a day or 2 after that was when Mr. Meadows had asked if we could 
5 maybe consider going as a surrogate, which, you know, I don't want to derail too much, 
6 but Mr. Meadows would always offer if something wasn't possible for POTUS or if POTUS 
7 wanted to do something but his schedule didn't permit him to do, Mr. Meadows would 
8 always offer to him: You know, if you want me to go up in your place or if you want me 
9 to go here and have this discussion or this meeting because you can't, you know, I'm 
10 happy to do it for you, sir. Whatever you want. 
11 Mrs. Luria. Okay. No, thank you for clarifying that. And so, if this was being 
12 talked about 48 hours, maybe even longer than that, before the time of the event, 
13 like --and this may get into the question that Mr. Passantino had about, you know, 
14 security planning, but, you know, would one feasibly think that, given 2, 4, 6 days' notice, 
15 that the Secret Service was capable of planning a movement between the White House 
16 and the Capitol? And the reason I'm asking is, like, was there some reason people were 
17 slow-rolling this? And if so, can you speculate, or do you have any knowledge of who 
18 that might be? 
19 Ms. Hutchinson. So I understand your question and the intent behind it. 
20 don't want to speculate or hypothesize on other people's mindsets. I just know from 
21 the role that I played with Mr. Meadows and conversations that I had had for the 10 
22 months, 11 months that I worked for him, the roles that other people have played. 
23 So I knew, once Mr. Meadows had asked --or had discussed that option with me 
24 about Mr. Trump going to the Capitol, you know, my immediate instinct was to go to 
25 Mr. Ornate, and, you know, the conversation between Mr. Ornate and I wasn't overly  121 
1 extensive because I --Mr. Ornate is the person that I implicitly trusted and has a great 
2 deal of knowledge in that area. So I took his word for what it was, and we just kind of 
3 planned accordingly from there. 
4 Mrs. Luria. My next question is really, like, if the President was intending to go 
5 to the Capitol on January 6th, for what purpose? Where in the Capitol was he planning 
6 to go, and what was he planning to do? Was any of that ever discussed? 
7 Ms. Hutchinson. If it was discussed, it wasn't in my presence. I didn't --I didn't 
8 have insight or --or knowledge of that. I know that he had wanted to entertain the 
9 idea. I don't know if it was his --what the intentions behind it were in terms of --and I 
10 believe Ms. Cheney touched on this too --in terms of if he wanted to make a public 
11 speech or just go and have his presence be felt, I'm not sure, and I don't want to 
12 speculate into the mindset of Mr. Trump on that. 
13 You know, that's probably a question that Mr. Meadows and Mr. Trump himself 
14 would be better suited to answer. 
15 Mrs. Luria. Okay. Thank you. And, just similarly, would your response be 
16 similar for Mr. Meadows? If he had intended to go as a surrogate, do you have any idea 
17 of what his intentions were if he were to go to the Capitol that day? 
18 Ms. Hutchinson. The intentions that he had relayed to me when I had discussed 
19 the option with him, were, following the protocol that he had established during his 
20 tenure as the chief of staff of --he --I don't want to say no to Mr. Trump; let's look for 
21 other options of how we can make something happen to where it's on par with what his 
22 expectations are, maybe what he would want. 
23 You know, I don't --I don't --he never relayed anything to me that was deliberate 
24 of him wanting to sit on the House floor or walk around the Capitol. It was more 
25 of --my discussions with him were more: Let's see if it's possible, and if it is, let's talk  122 
1 about the options that we have. 
2 We didn't get any further to planning any of his movements that day though, just 
3 because of logistically I knew it wasn't going to be possible, so I didn't --I didn't persist on 
4 that subject matter further with him. 
5 Mrs. Luria. Okay. Thank you. 
6 
7 
8 Ms. Hutchinson. Thank you. 
Ms. Cheney. ., I just have one more question on this. 
Ms. Hutchinson, you mentioned that this was discussed on the --I think you said 
9 the plane on the way back from Georgia on January 4th. Could you tell us about that, 
10 those discussions? And I mean the possibility of the President's travel to the Capitol. 
11 Ms. Hutchinson. The only specifics that I recall were, you know, he had gone 
12 into the conference room and was having discussions with individuals present in the 
13 conference room at the time and said something along the lines of: Well, maybe you'll 
14 be seeing me at the Capitol on the 6th. I believe it was a Wednesday. I don't know if 
15 he said the 6th or Wednesday. This isn't verbatim again. Wish I had that sharp of a 
16 memory, but something along the lines of: Maybe you all will be seeing me at the 
17 Capitol on the 6th; maybe you won't. Who knows, type of ordeal. 
18 You know, there wasn't any definitive conclusion drawn in that conversation that I 
19 was present for. But it was just the --you know, he's --that was his conversational 
20 method with them at the time. 
21 Ms. Cheney. And who was in the conference room on Air Force One for that 
22 meeting? 
23 Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Graham --Senator Graham, Marjorie Taylor Greene. 
24 Mr. Meadows was in and out. I mean, after rallies when we would fly back to 
25 Washington, D.C., there were frequent --like, Mr. Trump would often spend, depending  123 
1 on the flight and the length of it, he would spend a considerable amount of time with the 
2 people that were in the conference room. So people would float in and out during the 
3 duration of the flight. So, you know, I recall Mr. Meadows floating in and out, 
4 Mr. Graham being present at one point, Mr. Scavino being present at another point, and 
5 Marjorie Taylor Greene. But, when he relayed the specific quote of "maybe you'll all be 
6 seeing me up there, who knows," I don't recall who else was in there. 
7 The only reason I know that that Mr. Greene, Marjorie were in there --or 
8 Mrs. Taylor Greene were in there was because that's where their seats were. They 
9 didn't have seats anywhere else in the plane. 
10 Ms. Cheney. And were there any other Members who were there in the 
11 conference room that you recall? 
12 
13 
14 Ms. Hutchinson. I don't think so, no. 
Ms. Cheney. Okay. And anybody else? Non-Members? 
Ms. Hutchinson. --Members. No, there --I don't --again, there were people 
15 that floated in and out of the conference room that flight. I was only in there for 
16 probably 5 to 7 minutes. So I don't know --I don't know how long Mr. Trump was in the 
17 conference room for. I don't know --Johnny McEntee I know was in there at one point. 
18 Him and I were in there together, and then I had stepped out and had gone back to my 
19 computer because I was, like, finishing up a few emails on the flight back. 
20 But, during that portion of the conversation, I don't know. There were other 
21 Members at the rally, but they were the only two on the flight. 
22 
23 
24 
25 Ms. Cheney. Okay. Thank you. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Thank you. 
BYMR.-: 
Q Okay. I want to go back to January 5th when Mr. Cipollone pulled  124 
1 Mister --or pulled you aside and asked to meet with Mr. Meadows. Do you know 
2 whether he or the White House Counsel's Office expressed concern about John Eastman's 
3 theories specifically? 
4 A In the --in the days leading up to the 6th, I believe it was the 2nd, January 
5 2nd, was the first time that I recall Mr. Eastman's name being mentioned. I don't --I 
6 recall Mr. Cipollone and Mr. Philbin talking about concerns they had with Mr. Eastman, 
7 but I don't have any specific recollection on what those concerns might be. It was more 
8 of: Can we make sure we properly vet his theories before we raise this matter with the 
9 President? 
10 Q Okay. Do you know if that's what Mr. Cipollone went in to speak with 
11 Mr. Meadows about on the 5th of January? 
12 A Yeah, I don't know. Whenever Mr. Meadows would meet with the 
13 attorneys, it was a closed-door meeting, and there were oftentimes very few, if any other, 
14 participants. 
15 Q Do you know, it sounds like Mr. Cipollone and Mr. Philbin wanted to really 
16 get their heads around an issue before making a decision, which seems perfectly normal. 
17 Do you know if they ever reached a decision on Mr. Eastman's theories? 
18 
19 A 
Q I don't know. 
Okay. Do you know --and going back to one of the questions that 
20 Ms. Cheney asked you, you know, the White House Counsel's Office doesn't have kind of 
21 security concerns, right; that's not their lane necessarily. And so, when this discussion 
22 about the President potentially going to the Capitol came up, they had some concerns. 
23 Were you aware of any concerns that the President's trip to the Capitol on January 6th 
24 could be viewed as interfering with the joint session of Congress, for example? 
25 A I --well, I want also to make sure I'm clear for the record, and I believe that  1 this is what you meant by the phrasing of your question. It's not that they weren't 
2 concerned about the President's security that day. It's just that that's not 
3 their --they --they have no input on logistical movements for POTUS --a POTUS --
4 
5 
6 Q 
A Fair enough. 
--in the White House Counsel's Office. 
In terms of the other outstanding concerns they might've had, you know, I --I 
7 don't --I don't recall so at this moment. Yeah, I --I don't recall at this moment. I --I 
8 don't want to speak on behalf of the White House attorneys. They had their system 
9 with Mr. Meadows set up, so their conversations stayed close hold, and again, that 125 
10 wasn't --that wasn't something that I saw was my lane or anything that I should interject 
11 in, and always left those conversations between them and POTUS, if necessary, to 
12 elevate. 
13 Q Okay. And just one followup to that is, did Mr. Meadows ever tell you what 
14 their concerns --what White House Counsel's Office concerns with the President's trip to 
15 the Capitol, or potential trip to the Capitol on January 6th, were? 
16 A Mr. Meadows had discussed top-line concerns that --I don't know if they 
17 were specific to the White House Counsel's Office or, you know, I don't recall him saying: 
18 The White House Counsel's Office's concerns were X, Y, Z. I recall Mr. Meadows --
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 [Audio malfunction. Reporter asked for clarification.] 
Q 
A 
Q BYMR 
We can start the question over if you'd like. 
Yeah. 
Yeah. Let me --let me kind of start the question there so it's clear for the 
24 record and for you, Ms. Hutchinson. So you said there were some top-line concerns 
25 that you had heard about with respect to the President's trip to the Capitol. What were  126 
1 those top line concerns? 
2 A Just that there were broad concerns about movements; there were broad 
3 concerns about any legal implications that could happen. He had asked if I had heard 
4 anything from Members, if they had expressed ideas or concerns that they had had at 
5 different --at various points. Anything specific, I can't recall right now. 
6 Q Let me --let me stop you there. So we've already discussed the 
7 movements, I think, fairly comprehensively. I'm good on that. And then you 
8 mentioned top-line concerns about potential legal implications. What was your 
9 understanding about the concerns of legal implications? 
10 A You know, I --I don't know --I don't know that I can recall anything 
11 specifically to the way that you're phrasing this question. Yeah, and I --most of the 
12 insights that I had on the subject matter of this time were just their --were legal 
13 concerns. We wanted to make sure that, if he was to go up to the Capitol, that it was 
14 properly vetted. It wasn't something that had been previously done before. But 
15 in --in terms of the context or substance behind specific laws, you know, I don't know. 
16 Q Okay. So it sounds like legal concerns with maybe the President being 
17 there at the joint session, but to be even more specific, were you aware of any legal 
18 concerns or had you heard about any potential legal concerns related to obstructing the 
19 joint session of Congress and the way they were counting votes? 
20 A I had heard from Mr. Meadows and a select handful of others, including 
21 Mr. Cipollone, that there were legal concerns that they wanted to be addressed and to be 
22 discussed, and that's the extent of the insight that I had of it at the time. 
23 Q Okay. Do you have any insight that you've learned since then about those 
24 conversations or concerns? 
25 A Not any that I believe is pertinent or relevant to the terms of my subpoena,  1 within the time period that was outlined. 
2 
3 Q Okay. To be clear --
Mr. Passantino. What she's wrestling with --what she's wrestling with, she's 
4 trying to be --she wants to be super accurate and careful and never say she knows 127 
5 something she doesn't. But this is something that's been talked about for the last year 
6 and a half every single day, TV, news, chatter. So, if you could sort of ask specifically, 
7 like, something that's, like, germane to this time period because there's so much out 
8 there, and I know she's just trying to be careful. 
9 BYMR-
10 Q Yeah, sure, and that's perfectly fair. And Ms. Hutchinson, I guess I would 
11 just leave to the universe of information that you've received or obtained outside of 
12 public reporting. So if --for example, if you had a conversation with Mr. Meadows in 
13 July of last year, after January 6th of 2021, then that would be something that's still 
14 relevant to us in understanding that. 
15 But I completely agree with Mr. Passantino; if it's something that you just heard 
16 about or read about in the press, then that's totally fine. 
17 A No, and I haven't spoken to Mr. Meadows since January 20th, 2021. So 
18 there were no further discussions had on our end. 
19 Q Okay. All right. And to get back to the legal concerns or what you 
20 understood of potential legal concerns being there, related to January 6th, do you know 
21 whether the White House Counsel's Office ever took those specific concerns they had to 
22 the President and said --expressed their views on them? 
23 A I'm not sure. The White House Counsel's Office was very diligent in their 
24 vetting processes with the chief of staff, and if they felt, after discussing with 
25 Mr. Meadows, that it was necessary and pertinent to elevate to the President, that's the  128 
1 protocol that they would follow. I'm not sure if any of those conversations [inaudible] 
2 anything on the Presidential level after that. I just --I just don't have insight into that to 
3 provide to you all. 
4 Q Okay. 
5 Mr. Passantino. And I know you said you don't know. Then I'll let you give that 
6 answer. But just be very careful. We have to be mindful of potential of other 
7 executive or attorney-client privilege not for you, but between Mr. Cipollone and the 
8 President. I just want to be very careful that we talk about that before you give an 
9 answer on that. Not that I'm assuming you know because you said you don't, but I just 
10 want to make sure that that instruction is clear. 
11 M- Very good. And I appreciate that. 
12 BYMR.-
13 Q Okay. So I do want to go back to exhibit No. 6, and this is page 7. We're 
14 now returning to the timeframe of January 6th, and in the middle there, you know, we 
15 had that conversation about what Bobby P or E means, Bobby Engel. 
16 And the next messages that you send say: Ah, yes, McCarthy just called me too, 
17 do you guys think you're coming to my office, in quotes. 
18 Can you explain what these text messages are about and when you received a call 
19 from McCarthy? 
20 A I don't have the timestamp for the call, but it was around the time that the 
21 President had said during the rally --I'm paraphrasing: And we're going to march to the 
22 Capitol. I'm going to march to the Capitol. I don't recall his specific quote. A couple 
23 minutes after that, I got a call from Leader McCarthy, which, again, wasn't out of the 
24 ordinary. Mr. McCarthy and I communicated frequently. 
25 And that was pretty much the extent of it. It was very brief, less than a minute.  129 
1 I would go as far to say less than 30 seconds. It was: Do you think you're coming to 
2 the Capitol, or do you think you're coming to my office if you're coming to the Capitol? 
3 And I said: We're not coming to the Capitol. That's not --that's not what we 
4 heard. It's not what he just said. And, when you're behind the rally in a tent, you can't 
5 really hear what's going on in front of you. So I hadn't heard it up until that point. 
6 And I said: I'll reconfirm and shoot you a text, but we've signed off --or we have 
7 written off the option of going up to the Capitol. 
8 So he said, "All right, just let me know," and hung up. 
9 Q So you received this call from Leader McCarthy, Kevin McCarthy I'm 
10 assuming, during the rally while the President was speaking. Is that right? 
11 
12 A 
Q That's correct. 
And, when he called you, was he upset? Did he sound --or I guess you 
13 describe it. What was the tone of the call? 
14 A Rushed. Mr. McCarthy is a very fast talker, and there was events under 
15 way on the House floor. I'm not sure his exact whereabouts at the moment that he 
16 called me, but, again, it was a very quick conversation. It wasn't --he didn't give me an 
17 impression that he was frustrated or angry at the prospect of what the President had said 
18 on the stage. It was more of him trying to rush to get insight on what our plans were 
19 and wanted to have insight and be read in on that in case we had been planning to go up 
20 to the Capitol. 
21 Q Okay. And, in the message above that, it says: McCarthy just called me 
22 too. 
23 Does that mean --or was it your understanding that Mr. McCarthy, or Leader 
24 McCarthy, was calling other people as well? I guess, what's the "too" a reference to?  130 
1 
2 [2:48 p.m.] 
3 A I believe it was more along the lines of there's a lot going on right now. 
4 We're having these conversations done here. I'm relaying this information to you and, 
5 oh, by the way, Mr. McCarthy just called me, Kevin just called me and asked the question. 
6 BYMR.-
7 
8 
9 Q 
A 
Q Understood. Is that the only time you spoke to Leader McCarthy that day? 
Yes, on the phone. 
It's been reported --
10 A I believe I sent him a text after that call and said we're not coming up to the 
11 Capitol, and I don't know if he replied to that text or not. 
12 Q Do you have that text message or was that done from your White House 
13 phone? 
14 A I don't have that text message. It was done from my personal phone, but I 
15 don't have that text message. That was on Signal. 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 Q 
A 
Q 
A Do you know why you don't have it? 
It was on Signal. 
What does that mean, for my knowledge? 
The messaging app. 
Mr. Passantino. Yeah. Signal --and it was not Ms. Hutchinson, but if you're on 
21 Signal, it's possible for the other person to put a time delay on it that it goes away. Ms. 
22 Hutchinson did not have that, as you can tell, because she's done it, but --and, again --
23 Ms. Hutchinson. I turned over the messages I had on Signal, and I personally 
24 don't turn on message expirations, but it's not under my control if other individuals do. 
25 So I turned over --I believe I stated it earlier in the interview, I had it on Signal from I  131 
1 believe Scott Perry and Bernie Kerik, if it wasn't Phil Waldron. I would have to go back 
2 through the messages to look, but those are the only messages that I had on Signal 
3 preserved from this time period that the other individual that I had correspondence with 
4 had not sent message expirations on. 
5 Mr- I understand. So if you received this from Leader McCarthy on 
6 Signal, he had it set to expire, not you? 
7 
8 
9 
10 Ms. Hutchinson. Correct. 
Mrlllllllll. Understood. Now, before we -­
BY MR.-
Q Ms. Hutchinson, tell me more why you used Signal. This was 
11 communication with the majority leader --excuse me --minority leader of the House, 
12 official business. Why use Signal instead of your White House phone or your personal 
13 phone? 
14 A I believe one of the more important duties of the role that I played for Mr. 
15 Meadows was to be consistently and constantly available, and for me that meant using as 
16 many mediums of communication as possible. I always was diligent and did as much as I 
17 could to do everything on my official work devices, whether that was --it frequently was 
18 done on my White House phone and my official White House email. I should have, in 
19 hindsight, used email, but I didn't do frequent correspondence on that. But, you know, 
20 branching off of my work in leg affairs and going over to the chief of staff's office, my 
21 personal cell phone information was widely available, I wanted to make sure that people 
22 had it. 
23 And there are, I would say, dozens of Members of Congress that preferred to 
24 speak on Signal because it is an encrypted app and it is verified as a safer app to use for 
25 communications. So I wanted to make sure that I was always available to any concerns  132 
1 or information that Members of Congress or other principals wanted to relay that they 
2 knew they could reach me on some form of communication. 
3 Q Had Leader McCarthy ever asked you to use Signal as the primary means of 
4 communicating with him directly? 
5 A No. He never expressed a preference, but when Mr. McCarthy and I had 
6 established a more frequently --a frequent working relationship, it was just the form of 
7 communication that he diverted to, and I felt it was appropriate for me just to defer to 
8 that at the time. 
9 It wasn't --this isn't just specific to Mr. McCarthy. This is others --there are a lot 
10 of Members of Congress and other individuals involved in politics in D.C. that use Signal. 
11 There's no nefarious intent behind it, to my knowledge. It was just a form of 
12 communication that I had utilized. And I had done my best to always preserve the 
13 records, but, again, it's out of my control whether people handle the optic differently on 
14 there. And I'm more than willing to discuss this matter further with you all if you have 
15 any further questions. 
16 Q No. I'm just trying to be clear as to why you chose Signal. Sounds like 
17 that was what you had previously established with Leader McCarthy as the primary 
18 understanding for your direct communication with him and his preference, or that's what 
19 he used so that's what you used. Is that right? 
20 A We never established --Mr. McCarthy and I never had a conversation of, 
21 let's speak on Signal versus iMessage or versus your work phone. It just gravitated in 
22 that direction. You know, I'm not aware if Mr. McCarthy has a preference for Signal 
23 with all of his communications, but that's what he had a routine of using. 
24 Q The established routine was over a private course of dealing, not an explicit 
25 conversation. You used Signal to communicate or coordinate with Leader McCarthy.  1 Is that right? 
A Yes, amongst other --
Q I understand it wasn't solely limited to him. 
Mr. Passantino. Can I have 1 minute just to confer with my client briefly? 
Mr.- Ofcourse. 
[Discussion off the record.] 
Mr. Passantino. Thanks. We're good. Sorry. 
BYMR.-133 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 Q And it's been reported in that call that Mr. McCarthy essentially begged Mr. 
10 Trump to call off the rioters, to which the President said something like, Well, Kevin, I 
11 guess these people are more upset about the election than you are. 
12 Do you have any knowledge from your time working in the White House about 
13 this call? 
14 A I don't. Mr. McCarthy would frequently reach out to other people in the 
15 White House, so I'm not sure if that call went directly to Mr. Trump and was connected 
16 through Mr. Trump's assistant. That call didn't go through me, and I had --until it was 
17 reported on, I didn't know that they had discussion. 
18 Q Okay. So you only learned about it in the press or books, whatever's come 
19 out since then? 
20 
21 
22 A Correct. 
Q Okay. All right. If we can go back to exhibit number 2, page 3. 
After the speech on the rally, the daily diary for the President shows that the 
23 President returned to the White House around 1:19. Is that around the same time you 
24 returned to the White House? 
25 A Yes. I was manifest in the same motorcade as the President, so that would  134 
1 have been the time roughly that I would have arrived back in. 
2 
3 Q 
A Do you know --do you know where the President went when he returned? 
I was a couple cars behind him, so I'm not sure if he made any other 
4 movements, if he stopped anywhere between walking from West Executive Avenue up to 
5 the Oval Office or the Oval dining room. So when I had got into the West Wing, he was 
6 in the Oval dining room. 
7 
8 Q 
A How do you know that? 
Because I heard it announced on my radio which announces the President's 
9 logistical movements. 
10 
11 this? 
12 
13 
14 Q 
A 
Q 
A Okay. And is that a Secret Service channel on the radio that you heard 
Yes. 
Did you ever see the President in the dining room that afternoon? 
I wasn't present with the President in the dining room that afternoon. It's 
15 very possible just by proximity of the layout of the West Wing that I physically saw him, 
16 but I saw him in the dining room a lot. I know that might sound like a kind of broad 
17 statement to say to you all. I just can't recall if I had eyes on him in the dining room that 
18 specific day. 
19 Mr. Meadows was in there with him in and out throughout the day, and there was 
20 a point where I had walked maybe 25 feet from the main chief of staff office. I had 
21 walked down there at one point to relay a message to Mr. Meadows from a Member that 
22 had reached out to me on my work phone, and I had asked the President's valet to get 
23 Mr. Meadows' attention for me, and he opened the door. So maybe I saw Mr. Trump at 
24 that point. But other than that, I wasn't in there with him at any point. 
25 Q And other than that, were you --did you stay in your office that afternoon  135 
1 once you returned to the White House or were you in other places as well around the 
2 White House? 
3 A I primarily stayed in the main chief of staff office. There was a point during 
4 the day that I went over to the Eisenhower Building where Mr. Meadows' security detail 
5 would be --would stay during the day to let them know what was going on and Mr. 
6 Meadows' plans for the evening and just discuss if they had a plan of action for getting 
7 him home. But I had no discussions with other staff in the Eisenhower Building that day. 
8 Q When did you first learn about the attack on the Capitol? 
9 
10 A 
Q Maybe --sorry if this is --
No. That's perfectly fine. So as best you can remember, where were you, 
11 how long after returning to the White House, when did you start seeing maybe images or 
12 hearing about there being violence at the Capitol? 
13 A I remember sitting at my desk in the main chief of staff office, and it was just 
14 happening in real time. You had TV up. It was a four-way split screen, so it had the 
15 four main news channels on it, and seeing that there were reports being established that 
16 people had breached the security perimeter of the White House. So I learned about it at 
17 the same time everybody else did, and it was on TV at that point. 
18 Q And just to clarify, you said, I think, breached the security perimeter of the 
19 White House. You mean the Capitol? 
20 A Oh, I'm sorry. Yes, the Capitol. 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A 
Q Okay. Fair enough. 
Sorry. 
No, that's quite all right. 
Was anybody in the office with you, in the specific office where you were sitting? 
A I don't recall.  136 
1 Q Were you with Mr. Meadows when you first started seeing these images of 
2 people breaching the security at the White House? 
3 A Mr. Meadows' door was shut at that point, and he was by himself with it 
4 shut. He just --he was making some calls and following up to some emails. And I had 
5 gone in and let him know, and he said thank you, and I walked out. 
6 Q 
7 Meadows? 
8 
9 
10 A 
Q 
A How long was that conversation, that interaction you just described with Mr. 
Maybe 30 seconds. 
And do you remember what you told him specifically? 
That I was seeing images on TV, that there were people starting to breach 
11 the security perimeter of the Capitol building, and whether he had heard similar reports 
12 or heard from any Members. And he said, Thank you. No, I haven't. I said, All right, 
13 sir. Let me know if you need anything, and walked out. 
14 Q All right. And you walked out. Did he do anything after you gave him that 
15 information? Did he get up and go anywhere, for example? 
16 A After I walked out of his office, I'm not sure if he made any calls. He had his 
17 door shut, and I couldn't hear anything going on inside of his office. He didn't 
18 immediately leave his office during that timeframe, no. 
19 Q You broke up at the very end. You said he didn't immediately leave. And 
20 what was the rest of that sentence? 
21 
22 A 
Q He didn't immediately leave his office during that timeframe, no. 
Okay. Do you remember Mr. Williamson, Ben Williamson, coming to see 
23 Mr. Meadows about what was happening at the Capitol? 
24 A I remember Mr. Williamson speaking with Mr. Meadows; I'm not sure at 
25 what point. Ben had a small desk in our office area, but he primarily spent his time over  137 
1 in the upper press office. So I remember him coming in and out a couple of times that 
2 day. Sometimes Mr. Meadows was not present. He was down in the Oval Office or 
3 the Oval dining room with the President. Sometimes Mr. Meadows was in his office. 
4 don't know, and I couldn't estimate when Ben had the conversations with Mr. Meadows, 
5 though. 
6 Q Do you know what Mr. Williamson went in to talk to Mr. Meadows about on 
7 January 6th in the afternoon? 
8 A I don't. Mr. Williamson ran Mr. Meadows' social media accounts. So as 
9 I've previously stated, I don't have any insight or jurisdiction or knowledge to the social 
10 media operation of the White House or Mr. Meadows. That's a question better suited 
11 for Mr. Williamson to answer. 
12 Q Understood. You said now at various points that Mr. Meadows was in and 
13 out of the dining room with the President on the afternoon of January the 6th. Is that 
14 right? 
15 
16 A 
Q Could you repeat that one more time, please? 
Sure. You mentioned now a couple times that Mr. Meadows was in and 
17 out of the dining room with the President on January 6th, the afternoon. Is that 
18 correct? 
19 
20 A 
Q That's correct. 
Do you know what Mr. Meadows --or what the President was doing in the 
21 dining room during those periods? 
22 A I'm trying to be specific and draw the line between like, obviously, what's 
23 been reported after the fact. That day, you know, I knew that there were people in and 
24 out of the Oval dining with him that afternoon. The TV was on. I knew he was 
25 watching the news, which wasn't anything out of the ordinary at all. But substantively  138 
1 I'm not sure that I could speak to his specific activities or conversations other than what 
2 was reported on after the fact. 
3 Q Okay. When you say he was watching the news, do you know that he was 
4 watching coverage of what was happening at the Capitol? 
5 A Can't speak definitively to it because I wasn't in the room with him, but 
6 I --that was what was on the news that day, so --
7 Q Okay. And did Mr. Meadows ever tell you what he was doing or talking 
8 about with the President when he was meeting with him in the dining room on 
9 January 6th? 
10 A He had told me that he was going to talk to him about the response to what 
11 was happening at the Capitol and inform him of any information that he had gotten 
12 from --that Mr. Meadows had received from Mr. Ornate or any other individuals with 
13 insight as to what was happening up there. That's the extent of my knowledge of their 
14 conversations that I can recall at this moment, unless you have more specific questions. 
15 Q Well, did he say anything about how the President should respond to what 
16 was happening at the Capitol? 
17 A To my recollection, no, him and I did not have that conversation. He had 
18 been fielding inquiries and talking to individuals of how they felt the President should 
19 react. I'm not sure which of those methods were released to the President. I think 
20 that's a question for Mr. Meadows to answer. I wasn't present for any of those 
21 discussions. 
22 Q Did Mr. Meadows tell you that he was relaying some of the suggestions he 
23 was receiving by text messages or from inside the White House or otherwise to the 
24 President on how to respond to what was happening at the Capitol? 
25 A Not definitively. Mr. Meadows would oftentimes get a call or a text  139 
1 message and say something along the lines of, All right, I'll let him know. 
2 In the past, I was privy to circumstances where he did let him know or he just kind 
3 of let it die there. But I'm not sure what he actually elevated to him that day in that 
4 timeframe. 
5 Q Do you know whether Mr. Meadows made a recommendation to the 
6 President on --
7 
8 
9 
10 Ms. Cheney. 1111 before --
Mr~ Oh, go ahead, Ms. Cheney. I'm sorry. 
Ms. Cheney. So before we go into that, I just wanted to go back for a moment. 
Ms. Hutchinson, when you first went in and told Mr. Meadows what you were 
11 seeing on TV, you said that you asked him if he had heard similar. And what was his 
12 response? 
13 Ms. Hutchinson. He had said something along the lines of, Thanks. No, I'll 
14 reach out to some folks or I'll go on Twitter. This isn't verbatim. I --it was a very quick 
15 and brief conversation. He didn't have any reaction, though, in the moment that had 
16 struck me as something noteworthy or something that I needed to follow up on him 
17 about --with him about. 
18 Ms. Cheney. And was it your impression that you were the first person to tell 
19 him about what was going on at the Capitol? 
20 Ms. Hutchinson. Yes. However, before I had gone in, maybe 10 to 15 minutes 
21 beforehand, he was in a meeting with White House counsel. So I don't know the subject 
22 matter that was discussed in that meeting or if it was anything pertaining to the events 
23 underway at the Capitol, which is possible that they had that discussion in there when 
24 they were with him. But to my recollection in this moment, I was the first person that 
25 had went in to have this conversation with him as the events were unfolding on TV as I  140 
1 was watching them. 
2 Ms. Cheney. And did White House counsel --and would that have been Mr. 
3 Cipollone, Mr. Philbin? Who is the White House counsel? Who would that have been? 
4 Ms. Hutchinson. Likely so. I don't know if it was --I don't recall if it was one of 
5 them or both of them. 
6 Ms. Cheney. And did they come into Mr. Meadows' office? 
7 Ms. Hutchinson. They met with him frequently throughout that afternoon. 
8 Ms. Cheney. But so for this particular meeting 10 to 15 minutes before you 
9 talked to him, who came into Mr. Meadows' office? 
10 Ms. Hutchinson. I remember White House counsel being in there. I don't recall 
11 any other specific individual. I don't even recall if it was both Mr. Cipollone and 
12 Mr. Philbin or if it was one, not the other. There was a lot going on at that point, and I 
13 was in and out a little bit. I had gone downstairs and I had gone over to see Mr. Ornate. 
14 So I don't --I wasn't present for the flow of individuals in and out of the office. 
15 Ms. Cheney. Okay. But so --just because it's really helpful for us to have the 
16 timeline understanding. Did Mr. Williamson come to see Mr. Meadows before you 
17 initially went in to tell him what you were seeing on TV about the Capitol? 
18 Ms. Hutchinson. Not to my recollection. Mr. Williamson would have had to 
19 come in afterwards because, you know, in the window that I remember White House 
20 counsel walking out of his office, nobody else had gone into his office in that timeframe. 
21 Ms. Cheney. Okay. So just so I understand, we had probably Mr. Cipollone in 
22 Mr. Meadows' office 10 to 15 minutes before you saw what was happening on television 
23 and went in to see Mr. Meadows and let him know? 
24 Ms. Hutchinson. Correct. And I just ask --I'm doing my best to estimate the 
25 actual timeline behind this. I don't want to be stuck too hard on the timeframe just  141 
1 because I don't know and I don't have a personal timeline built out. I'm doing my best 
2 to recall the events as they were underway that afternoon. And I'm estimating it was 10 
3 to 15 minutes. It could have been 7 to 10 minutes. But, roughly speaking, that would 
4 have been the timeframe, but --
5 
6 Ms. Cheney. No, I appreciate --
Ms. Hutchinson. --every day we tried to give Mr. Meadows a little bit of a buffer 
7 to have a couple minutes to himself just because he didn't have much time. So we 
8 always tried to build in 15 to 20 minutes for him to return some calls on his personal cell 
9 phone, and that's how I perceived that time, but I felt that it was worth interrupting to go 
10 in and tell him. 
11 You know, he had a very small TV in his office. We had a larger one outside of 
12 his office, in the main chief of staff office area. His personal office was maybe the size of 
13 a desktop computer. So I wanted to make sure that he was aware of what was 
14 happening if he hadn't already heard of it on his cell phone from other individuals 
15 communicating it to him. 
16 Ms. Cheney. Okay. And so, again, if Mr. Williamson had come in before that, 
17 you would have been aware --Mr. Williamson would have had to come past you to go 
18 into Mr. Meadows' office. Is that right? 
19 
20 Ms. Hutchinson. Correct. 
Ms. Cheney. Okay. And then you mentioned earlier that there was one point 
21 when you went into the dining room with a message for Mr. Meadows from a Member. 
22 Could you tell us which Member that was and what the message was? 
23 Ms. Hutchinson. Just to clarify on that point, I didn't physically step into the Oval 
24 dining room. If you're --and this is just logistically. I want to make sure that I was 
25 clear in my response that there's --you walk down the hallway, there's a --call it the  142 
1 butler's pantry, and that's where the President's military valet would be, and then the 
2 Oval dining room. 
3 And so I asked the valet to get the chief of staff for me. The valet opened the 
4 door. Chief of staff stepped out. And I had relayed the message from Mr. Jar---Jim 
5 Jordan, Congressman Jim Jordan at the time. He had called my work cell phone, and 
6 brief conversation, Hey, where's Mark? I told him he's down with the President. He 
7 said, Can you please have him call me? And I went and asked Mr. Meadows to give Mr. 
8 Jordan a call. And he said, All right, I'll do it. And then I went back to my desk. 
9 Ms. Cheney. Okay. And we'll walk through exactly the timeframe on that. 
10 just wanted to make sure we got who the Member was and what the message was. 
11 But do you recall approximately either what time that would have been or, in 
12 terms of what was happening at the Capitol, just a sense of when Mr. Jordan called you? 
13 Ms. Hutchinson. I don't. I'm sorry. I'm trying my best to remember. I don't 
14 remember right now. 
15 
16 Ms. Cheney. Okay. That's --
Ms. Hutchinson. It was after I had the conversation with Mr. Meadows when I 
17 had seen the security perimeter being breached at the Capitol. You know, I wouldn't --I 
18 would say maybe an hour after that. 
19 Ms. Cheney. Okay. And so when you went in and you told him that the 
20 security perimeter was breached and, you know, he said thank you, and he said he was 
21 going to sort of see what he could see about it, what do you recall him doing after that? 
22 
23 Ms. Hutchinson. I just left his office and shut the door behind me. 
Ms. Cheney. Okay. And do you recall how much longer he stayed in his office 
24 after that? 
25 Ms. Hutchinson. Not specifically, no. A little while later, there was some  143 
1 individuals that went in and out of his office, and at that point, he started going back and 
2 forth between his office and the Oval dining room. 
3 Ms. Cheney. And do you recall who those individuals were who were going in 
4 and out of his office? 
5 Ms. Hutchinson. Specifically that I can remember off the top of my head, I just 
6 remember White House counsel. 
7 Ms. Cheney. Okay. So they had been in meeting with him before you went in 
8 and told him, and then they came back in afterwards, and then he left and went down to 
9 the dining room? 
10 Ms. Hutchinson. Right. He --
11 Ms. Cheney. Okay. And I knowllllgoing to walk through that in detail. 
12 appreciate that. Sorry. Go ahead, Cassidy. 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 Ms. Hutchinson. No, it's okay. Thank you. 
On the last point there --
Ms. Cheney. Did you want to add something else? 
Ms. Hutchinson. I'm sorry? 
Ms. Cheney. I'm sorry, Cassidy. Did you want to add something else? Did you 
18 want to add something else? 
19 Ms. Hutchinson. Nothing too substantive. Just to reiterate the timeline that 
20 you had said, yes, White House counsel's office, Mr. Philbin, Mr. Cipollone, or a 
21 combination thereof, were in his office, left. A little while later, I went in and told him 
22 about the security perimeter being breached at the Capitol. I walked out. He had a 
23 few more minutes to himself. And then White House counsel's office went back into the 
24 office with Mr. Meadows, and that's when he started gravitating between his off---his 
25 personal office and the Oval dining room.  144 
1 Ms. Cheney. And do you remember, when he went to the Oval dining room, did 
2 White House counsel go with him or did he go by himself? 
3 Ms. Hutchinson. They went with him. Mr. Cipollone went with him. I don't 
4 recall whether Mr. Philbin met with him at this time. 
5 
6 
7 
8 Ms. Cheney. Okay. Okay. Thank you. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Thank you. 
BYMR-
Q Ms. Hutchinson, do you remember whether Eric Herschmann was with Mr. 
9 Cipollone or Mr. Philbin when they went and spoke with Mr. Meadows? 
10 
11 
12 A 
Q 
A Not that I can recall in the specific iteration that I just spoke about. 
Okay. 
Mr. Herschmann was in and out of our office throughout the day, and he 
13 frequently was with White House counsel's office. But I don't recall whether he was 
14 with them at this particular moment that I just elaborated on. 
15 Q Okay. If we could pull up exhibit No. 8, please. 
16 This is a 3 by 5 card or some kind of card stock with chief of staff letterhead. And 
17 just briefly, do you recognize this letterhead, what this piece of paper is generally? Not 
18 necessarily the substance of the note on it. 
19 
20 A 
Q Yeah, that is one of our pocket cards. 
And who used those? 
21 A Primarily Mr. Meadows. Whenever I had to relay a message to him had a 
22 stock of [audio malfunction]. Mr. Meadows was the primary user of these cards. He 
23 had a pile in his office to use them to take notes on his calls or for a message for the 
24 President that he just --the letterhead that he used on a daily basis. 
25 Ms. Thurston and I both had our own stack of them in our desk drawers to relay  145 
1 messages to him when he was either on a call or if he was meeting with people that it 
2 was something that he needed to address in that moment, just to pass a note in. And 
3 we had the chief of staff letterhead which is --I believe is similarly used between all of the 
4 chiefs of staff. And it's easier for us to keep track of messages that way, because there's 
5 also just generic White House letterhead pocket cards that other staffers use. 
6 Q And this one --if you can scroll down just a little bit --it says: "Anyone who 
7 entered the Capitol without proper authority should leave immediately." 
8 Do you recognize this card specifically? 
9 
10 
11 A 
Q 
A Yes. That's my handwriting on that day. 
Okay. 
This was --I don't remember who relayed this message to me. I was 
12 writing very quickly. There was somebody who had called me on my work cell phone, 
13 and this was a draft tweet that this person felt would be useful if it went out from the 
14 President's Twitter or from another significant media surrogate. And I remember 
15 writing this down and passing it in to Mark and giving him the context in real time. 
16 don't recall who relayed this message to me, though. 
17 Q When you gave this message to Mr. Meadows, was Mr. Meadows in the Oval 
18 dining room or was he in his office? 
19 A He had to be in his office, because the only time I spoke to him in the dining 
20 room is when I relayed that Mr. Jordan was trying to get a hold of him. 
21 
22 
23 Q 
A 
Q 
24 President? 
25 A Okay. Do you know what Mr. Meadows did with this? 
I don't. 
Did he say or did he ever tell you that he proposed this tweet to the 
I don't recall. I had several brief conversations with him throughout the  146 
1 afternoon, so I can't recall specifically his reaction to this one. He might remember if 
2 you have the opportunity to speak with him about it, but I don't want to speak to his 
3 reaction or lack thereof, just because I don't remember. 
4 Q Sure. Let me ask it maybe a different way. Did Mr. Meadows ever tell 
5 you that he had proposed to the President that the President send out a statement but 
6 the President did not want to do so? 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 A 
Q 
A Can I have a moment to confer with my counsel, please? 
Of course. 
Thank you. 
[Discussion off the record.] 
Mr. Passantino. Sorry. The conversation that we were just having relates to a 
12 confusion about --this is like --this question pertained to like stuff that's been in the 
13 news all day, every day. People are writing books about it. It's obviously super hard 
14 for Cassidy to sort of filter through. We're going to do the best that we can, but I don't 
15 want to sort of keep interrupting on it. But [inaudible] this is like some of the stuff you 
16 hear so much every day on the news. So it's hard for her to filter out specific 
17 recollection versus what she kind of knows in the news, but never wants to be in a 
18 position of saying something definitive, because she wants to do everything she can to be 
19 as honest and open as she can be. 
20 Mr.- Yeah. 
21 Mr. Passantino. Anyway, our apologies. That's sort of a concern that we have 
22 when we're starting to get into stuff that's so publicly been in the news every day. 
23 M- No, I completely understand that. Yeah, I completely understand 
24 that, Ms. Hutchinson and Mr. Passantino. And we would only ask for your recollection 
25 of what happened and to the best you can. Either let us know when you might be  147 
1 getting mixed up with what's been reported and then also let us know if the only basis of 
2 knowledge you have is based on what's been reported. So that's a completely valid 
3 concern. 
4 BYM~ 
5 Q On that point, to go back to the question that I had asked --you know, if you 
6 could pull back up exhibit No, 8. 
7 I'll try my best to rephrase my question or to restate my question. But did Mr. 
8 Meadows ever tell you that he had spoken with the President and proposed --told the 
9 President that he needs to send out a message but the President refused to do so or 
10 declined to do so? 
11 A He had told me that afternoon that he was working on getting a message 
12 out and that the conversation had taken different breadths at different points through 
13 the afternoon in terms of how that outreach was going to be conducted, whether it was 
14 going to be a tweet, different iterations of a tweet, a video, what type of statement was 
15 going to go out. 
16 And Mr. Meadows had relayed that conversations were underway, not to relay 
17 any message to any Members that had been reaching out at the time until we knew what 
18 approach we were going to take with any resolution to this particular issue. 
19 Q Did you learn that the President was reluctant to send out a message to 
20 address the situation at the Capitol on January the 6th? 
21 A The information that was made available to me wasn't necessarily that the 
22 President was expressing reluctance; it's that the President was being strategic and 
23 selective with how he was going to relay this message. 
24 Q Can you expand on that? Strategic and selective to what end? What's 
25 the need to do that, because -- 148 
1 A He didn't want to rush to put out a statement, to my knowl---to my 
2 knowledge, he did not want to rush and put out a statement that was not in line with the 
3 appropriate reaction, because there were so many people in and out of the Oval dining 
4 room that afternoon and he wanted to make sure that it was a fine-tuned group of 
5 people that he was listening to and a group of advisors that he trusted, and not 
6 necessarily to let other individuals that may be present kind of determine the direction 
7 that we were going to go in with a response at this time. 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 them. 
13 Q What type of message was he concerned about sending? 
Mr. Passantino. If you know. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Yeah. I don't --
Mr. Passantino. You can say what you know from specifics, if you can recall 
Ms. Hutchinson. I don't recall. I wasn't in the room for any of those 
14 conversations. I know what other people were suggesting that he do, but I don't know 
15 his reaction to other people's specific suggestions. 
16 Mr- Okay. I do want to get back to this card specifically, but on that 
17 general theme --
18 Mr.- Yeah. Just tell us more, Ms. Hutchinson. Who was suggesting 
19 what? And I understand that you weren't in the dining room talking to the President, 
20 but I'm wondering what you learned from Mr. Meadows or others about the various 
21 options that were proposed. 
22 Ms. Hutchinson. I'm sorry for taking time to think. I'm trying to distinguish 
23 what I learned that day versus what I learned in the days afterwards and what I've 
24 learned --
25 Mr. Passantino. Yeah. And, again --and I'm not --they don't want you to  1 guess. 
2 
3 149 
Ms. Hutchinson. I know. I'm trying to recall. 
Mr. Passantino. Right. They only want to know what you know, and I think 
4 they would appreciate, if you're struggling with it, to tell them because they don't want to 
5 rely on inaccurate information. 
6 Ms. Hutchinson. Right. And I recall Members reaching out to me, suggesting 
7 things, and me trying to relay it to Mark as frequently as possible. I remember 
8 individuals in the press operation preparing to shoot a video when that hadn't been 
9 defined yet, but it was people jumping the gun on the rumor mill that was swirling around 
10 the West Wing at the time. And I recall Ms. McEnany going into the Oval dining room 
11 with tweet suggestions. There was a lot of people in and out that afternoon. 
12 So just in terms of the specific message, there were dozens of iterations being 
13 floated around just because there were a considerable number of people in the West 
14 Wing that afternoon and everybody had a say in what they thought was the appropriate 
15 reaction. 
16 You know, at the end of the day, I don't know any one definitive response, other 
17 than Mr. Meadows coming back to listen to any feedback that I had received or --you 
18 know, you all mentioned Mr. Williamson. I'm sure Mr. Williamson provided some 
19 feedback to him from a press perspective. But I don't know a specific message that I 
20 could convey that hasn't been previously reported on or that I'm privy to that is useful 
21 context to answer your question. 
22 BYMR.-
23 Q Do you remember any person to whom you spoke directly conveying a 
24 specific desire about what the message should be, right, the President needs to say this? 
25 Do you remember anyone expressing a viewpoint like that to you that you heard, and  150 
1 either to you directly or that you were present for anytime during the afternoon? 
2 A I recall White House counsel's office coming in and saying, We need to talk 
3 to the chief about a reaction or an appropriate means of communication to address the 
4 situation happening. 
5 I recall Ms. Trump, lvanka Trump, coming in and asking if Mr. Meadows had any 
6 insight to what she wanted to put out on her Twitter, if she was okay to do so without his 
7 permission. And I had told lvanka to go into his office. 
8 You know, she was also down in the Oval dining room with the President that 
9 afternoon, as was the chief of staff. So I don't recall the time line of whether she put the 
10 tweet out in Mr. Meadows' office or if it was done in the dining room. 
11 But just top line, you know, people wanted there to be a more definitive response. 
12 It was just getting to that point to how to approach that response was kind of a more 
13 spirited topic of conversation that afternoon. 
14 Q So was everyone that spoke to you suggesting that there needed to be a 
15 response, or was anyone saying, No, we ought to hold our fire and sit back and see what 
16 happens? 
17 A I don't recall the latter, but I also don't want to mischaracterize my role in 
18 this. If anybody was reaching out to me or having a conversation with me, it was, 
19 Where's the chief of staff right now? I want to run this idea by him. 
20 Q Yeah, I appreciate that, Ms. Hutchinson. I'm not asking you for anything 
21 but what you recall people saying in your presence or relaying to you. 
22 You said you didn't hear anybody suggest that we ought to stand down or 
23 shouldn't say anything for a while. Is that right? I thought I understood you to say. 
24 No one was voicing that perspective to you. 
25 A That's correct, to me. [Inaudible]  151 
1 Q To you. Okay. And were people, conversely, suggesting that there was 
2 some urgency or that we --we collectively --someone needed to put something out or 
3 let's get something out or let's do something? Was that the general perspective of the 
4 White House counsel, the President's daughter, others that were coming to see the chief 
5 of staff? 
6 
7 
8 
9 Mr. Passantino. You can answer what they said to you, yeah. 
Ms. Hutchinson. Yes, sir. 
BYMR.-
Q Yeah. Again, Ms. Hutchinson, I'm just trying to get a sense of this, sort of 
10 the mood, the tone. Was this an urgency where people are saying, Hey, we've got to do 
11 something, we've got to get something out? Where's Mark? 
12 I'm not looking for exact words. I'm looking for sort of a sense of what was going 
13 on and what people were agitating to do. 
14 A I recall there being a sense of urgency in the need for individuals to speak to 
15 Mark on this subject matter. Sometimes the urgency wasn't always reciprocated, just 
16 by nature of volume of information that the chief of staff was confronted with at this 
17 point. And I say that meaning, you know, we weren't able to have him speak with 
18 everybody in as timely a manner as they would have liked. But it was widely recognized 
19 as a situation that, to my knowledge and from what I recall, that most people viewed as 
20 an urgent matter to be addressed. 
21 
22 Q 
A Yes. 
And the chief of staff was a natural surrogate for them to go to, knowing 
23 that it wasn't the most realistic expectation to see the President at this time. 
24 Q Got it. So when people were reaching out to the chief of staff, were they 
25 looking to the chief of staff as a conduit to the President, essentially encourage the  152 
1 President to say something, or were they looking for Mr. Meadows to say something? 
2 A Looking for Mr. Meadows to relay a message to the President on their behalf 
3 or, conversely, Mr. Meadows' approval for them to go see the President. 
4 Q Yeah, I understand. Okay. And did anyone in those series of 
5 conversations express frustration at their --at the fact that nothing had been said or 
6 nothing to their satisfaction had been put out publicly with respect to the riot that was 
7 happening? 
8 
9 A 
Q Could you repeat your question one more time? 
Yeah. I'm sorry. It was a long question. 
10 Did anybody express frustration that nobody had said anything yet or hadn't said 
11 the right thing yet at any point that afternoon? 
12 A I recall people reacting in a personal way, and everybody's reactions, I 
13 believe, were a little bit different. You know, I don't want to blanket term everybody as 
14 being frustrated with how things were underway. I'm certain that that was the mindset 
15 of certain individuals. I can't speak to them because I'm not them, and I don't want to 
16 hypothesize other individuals' mindsets other than my own. 
17 But what I can definitively say is I witnessed individuals being frustrated with the 
18 lack of transparency that afternoon, whether there was a plan in place or, you know, 
19 what measures we were going to take, just because the conversation --conversations 
20 that were being elevated to the President at that point were limited as we progressed 
21 through the afternoon just to keep a small group of trusted advisors around him to his 
22 benefit. And any frustrations or concerns that I had observed were more of a 
23 process-related issue, if that helps answer your question. Not sure that does at all. 
24 apologize if it doesn't. 
25 Q It does. Who expressed those frustrations to you or said things that made  153 
1 you think that he or she was frustrated? 
2 A I believe I've answered this in other iterations of this question. I talked to 
3 White House counsel that afternoon. I had spoken with lvanka Trump. I had spoken 
4 with Ms. McEnany. You all had mentioned Mr. Williamson. [Inaudible] I do recall Ben 
5 talking to Mr. Meadows that afternoon about iterations of social media reactions and 
6 tweets. I don't recall specifically what they said or what his opinions on them were, 
7 whether he thought that Mr. Meadows should put them out or Mr. Trump should put 
8 them out. 
9 I remember a lot of people being around that afternoon. But, again, I can't speak 
10 or hypothesize to the mindsets of other individuals other than what I believe I've already 
11 shared and tried to clarify as much as possible. 
12 Q Yeah. It sounds like you've said the White House counsel, the press 
13 secretary, the President's daughter, and Mr. Williamson all were trying to see the chief of 
14 staff. Were they all expressing frustration with the process at the urgency of trying to 
15 get something to the President? 
16 A Again, I'm hesitant to say they all were expressing frustration because I don't 
17 want to speak on their behalf. That's their responsibility. It's not my role, and that's 
18 not why I'm here today. I don't want to attribute an emotional reaction to them that 
19 I'm not sure that they would pin as accurate. I don't know if they would have been 
20 upset or frustrated or angry. 
21 Q Yeah. Ms. Hutchinson, I'm just ask asking you what you heard or saw, your 
22 observation of their demeanor, of the --not just verbatim what they said but the 
23 emotional state or their behavior, or what they said or did that would suggest frustration 
24 or a lack of frustration. And if that differs by individual, that's fine. Just parse that out 
25 for us.  154 
A May I please have a moment to speak with my attorney? 
Mr.- Yeah, sure. 1 
2 
3 Mr. Passantino. And we've been going about 2 hours too, so we'll go and come 
4 back, but at some point sooner, I'd like to take a break. 
5 Mr.~ That's a good point. We have been going for a while. Maybe we 
6 should take a break now. 
7 And, again, Ms. Hutchinson, I'm really not --I appreciate the care with which 
8 you're approaching these, and I'm not trying to get you to read ultimate conclusions into 
9 people's minds. That is a fair point. I guess I'm just trying to get more of a sort of 
10 minute-to-minute account of what you saw and what you heard and what you observed 
11 in terms of behavior and tone that could give us a sense of sort of the atmosphere. 
12 So we'll just take a break, but that's kind of what --we're just looking for your 
13 increased description of those things that afternoon. I get that it was a very intense and 
14 difficult afternoon. 
15 Mr. Passantino. Yeah, and we will do that. But, respectfully, on a super 
16 emotional day, she's described I think in great detail but is just reluctant to speak for 
17 other people. 
Mr Yes. 18 
19 Mr. Passantino. She's described, you know --and, again it's her testimony, not 
20 mine. She said people wanted to see the chief, people wanted action, you know. But 
21 do understand why she's trying to be as careful as she's trying to be --
22 Mr.- Yeah. 
23 Mr. Passantino. --which is she doesn't want to speak for other people. And 
24 she's here to tell you what she saw, heard, smelled, touched, did. But getting in the 
25 heads of other people is a really tough ask for her.  155 
1 Mr. - Yeah. I know, and that's exactly right, Mr. Passantino. I'm not 
2 trying to have her get into their heads. I'm just, again, looking for increased description 
3 of the behavior that you witnessed. 
4 There's the second step of what that meant inside of those people's heads. 
5 You're right, that's something that we'll let the record speak for itself. 
6 Mr. Passantino. All right. What time do you want to pop back? 
7 Mr.- Do you want to take a break now or do you want to take a 
8 break around --
9 Mr. - We have a 4 o'clock discussion that we need about 15 minutes for 
10 at 4 o'clock. So we can take a short break now and come back, but we're going to need 
11 to stop at 4 for about 10 or 15 minutes. 
12 Mr. Passantino. Yeah. Can I just have 5? And then we'll come back in 5 and 
13 then we'll do whatever you need to do. 
14 
15 
16 
17 Mr Perfect. Thank you. 
Mr. Passantino. Thank you. 
Mr. - We'll go off the record. Thanks. 
[Recess.]  156 
1 
2 [3:45 p.m.] 
3 Mr- Let's go back on the record. It's 3:45, and this is the transcribed 
4 interview of Ms. Cassidy Hutchinson. 
5 BY MR. 
6 Q Yeah, Ms. Hutchinson, I'll just go back to where we were. I was just trying 
7 to get, if you could, just in terms of the folks with whom you spoke that afternoon, tell us 
8 a little bit more about demeanor, tone, general content of what they said, whether 
9 anything conveyed any sense of frustration. 
10 A Again, I think that I elaborated as much as I possibly can. I understand that 
11 you have stated that you don't expect me to climb into their minds and their mindset, 
12 and I understand that, but, you know, in order to accurately attest to what you're asking, 
13 you know, I've done the best that I can to express that there are certain individuals that 
14 may have been frustrated and had a more frustrated tone that I would perceive as them 
15 being frustrated but they might perceive as them being upset or angry. 
16 You know, there were a lot of people around that day that had varying emotions, 
17 but I think that the commonality amongst those people was that they wanted there to be 
18 a definitive response on our end to address the problem before it continued to progress 
19 and get worse. You know, I don't --I don't recall specifically, in terms of the time line, 
20 whether they were upset and frustrated the tweet hadn't gone out sooner or the context 
21 of the tweet. 
22 You know, as you all know, there's a lot that was transpiring that afternoon. 
23 And, you know, if there's a particular moment in time that you have a question about, I'm 
24 happy to answer it, or that you would like to reference. But, generally speaking, you 
25 know, people wanted there to be a reaction because it was seen as beneficial for the  157 
1 individuals at the Capitol, law enforcement protecting the Capitol Building, the 
2 President's reputation and his reaction in the long run with how that would be viewed 
3 historically. And we just wanted to make sure that that was accurately portrayed and 
4 addressed at that time. 
5 Q Yes. Totally understand. Maybe it's easier just to ask you how you felt. 
6 Did you feel frustrated? 
7 A Yes, at times. But, you know, I don't believe --and my attorney or you all 
8 can correct me if I'm wrong in this assessment. You know, my emotions I don't believe 
9 are pertinent to the facts of this case. I would be willing to discuss my emotions and my 
10 feelings that afternoon, but at the end of the day, the way that the day transpired, it's 
11 irrelevant to what happened that day, and I just don't see it as an important sticking point 
12 and an issue of particular relevance for us to sit here and continue discussing. 
13 Q Yeah. Ms. Hutchinson, I appreciate that, but it's directly pertinent and 
14 relevant. As someone inside the White House who works there, like you did, who is 
15 there day to day, who's concerned about all the things you just described, your emotional 
16 reaction, your feelings about this are directly relevant. 
17 So I'm absolutely curious about what it was that made you frustrated. Tell us 
18 more about that. 
19 Mr. Passantino. It's probably quicker. I mean, you're human. Say what you 
20 want to say, and then we can move on to whatever. 
21 Ms. Hutchinson. I was not happy at all with what happened that day. I --it was 
22 terrible, and I think that everybody that violated the law that day should be held to the 
23 highest accountability under the law. 
24 I was upset and frustrated that there wasn't a reaction a little bit sooner. I felt 
25 that certain people could have done a little bit more as events transpired that afternoon,  158 
1 that there could have been a more definitive response taken in the counsel that was 
2 given to the President. I think that certain people could have been better at 
3 gatekeeping who he saw and who he received counsel and advice from. 
4 But then there was also the point of frustration for me where I, you know --I 
5 spent a considerable amount of time on the Hill during my tenure in the administration. 
6 I have great relationships, I would like to think, with Members on both sides of the aisle in 
7 both Chambers of Congress, as well as a lot of staff. I was terrified and worried for 
8 them. You know, none of us knew exactly what was going to happen that afternoon. 
9 So I was concerned on that front. 
10 And it was unpatriotic what happened. And I was upset at the message that this 
11 was relaying, and I also felt that it was out of line and uncharacteristic of the President's 
12 movement. And I was upset that, knowing what was happening at the Capitol, that this 
13 would likely be the legacy for years to come. 
14 And it just felt like this moment of pure helplessness because the power vacuum 
15 at that time, it was out of so many people's controls, but at the same time, it was 
16 affecting everybody. And it was frustrating from the standpoint of --and upsetting from 
17 the standpoint and the point of view of knowing that there needed --something needed 
18 to happen, but not having any ability to influence that in the moments that were --that 
19 these events were rapidly unfolding. 
20 Mr.- Very real, and I appreciate that. 
21 Who could have done more? You said more could have been done sooner. 
22 Who could have done that or hastened the response or done something more, in your 
23 view? 
24 
25 Mr. Passantino. If you have a view on that. 
So you're asking for her personal opinion? I just want to get a sense for what --I  159 
1 mean, she's given you a pretty honest view of her sense. 
2 Mr. -She did, and I appreciate that. 
3 You indicated in your prior answer more could have been done sooner. I'm just 
4 wondering more specifically what could have been done and who could have done it 
5 sooner. And it sounds like that caused you a very real understandable emotional 
6 reaction. 
7 Just more specifically, what would have changed that or been better, in your 
8 view? 
9 Ms. Hutchinson. I don't know if my opinions or what I thought could have been 
10 more appropriate of a reaction would have actually changed anything, but I felt that this 
11 was a very consequential couple hours in American history and in Mr. Trump's 
12 Presidency. 
13 And people that he had put the most trust in I felt like at points had failed him and 
14 merely in the sense of allowing too many people in a close circle of advisers that should 
15 have been a close circle of advisers that was expanded that day to get too many people's 
16 opinions. Allowing there to be too much time that had elapsed between kind of 
17 demanding a more implicit reaction. 
18 But, again, I am not hypothesizing that my point of view or personal opinions on 
19 this would have changed anything or would have even been something of substantive 
20 matter, because the way that things unfolded that day, it happened. And I wasn't in the 
21 position to influence or change anything, but I do think that he could have been a little bit 
22 better insulated and protected and been given more sound advice as the events that day 
23 had continued to transpire. 
24 
25 Mr. Passantino. Can I clarify the record? And I apologize. 
Just to clarify, just so the record is clear, are you basing that answer on what you  160 
1 were thinking at the time, or is that an answer that you're giving based on having 
2 watched all the news? I think it's --in fairness to you, I just want to make sure that they 
3 know what timeframe you're basing that answer on. 
4 Ms. Hutchinson. Right. That --that day, I felt that there could have been more 
5 done just to protect the President and consequently protecting everybody at the Capitol 
6 from the individuals that had gone into the building. 
7 And, since then, you know, I --just reflecting on it, it's difficult to look back and 
8 think what could have been, but it wasn't. And that's the reality of where we were at 
9 the time and where we are now. And I think that's the most fair and honest response I 
10 
11 
12 can give you, unless you would like me to elaborate further on anything. 
BYMR-
Q It is fair and honest. It sounds like you were most frustrated with Mr. 
13 Meadows. Is that accurate? 
14 A My role and with Mr. Meadows was very professional. We had a great 
15 working relationship. 
16 Now, on that note, we had a relationship where we valued, I think, each other's 
17 insight and advice on various subject matters. 
18 I was frustrated that day a little bit with him that he wasn't the person that I had 
19 seen protect the President so well for the months that he served his tenure as chief of 
20 staff and, honestly, the months that he was a Member of Congress. 
21 But I don't blame him for the reaction that he had that day. Everybody has to 
22 react in their own way. And, you know, when an event like this unfolds, there's no 
23 telling with somebody's character that how they're going to handle something. 
24 Everybody handles stress differently. And he is a man that I believe always worked to 
25 operate with the most integrity possible.  161 
1 But people make mistakes, and it's not my job to define whether or not that day 
2 was a mistake for him. I know my personal insights and opinions that day and in the 
3 days following and months following. And I think "frustrated" isn't the best word to 
4 describe that to him but maybe a little disappointed. 
5 But, again, I --he was the chief of staff during a very consequential period in 
6 American history, and I just don't believe it's my role to elaborate further on that. It 
7 wasn't my role then, and I don't see it as my role now. I'm here because I'm under 
8 subpoena and I'm doing my best to comply with the guidelines that are outlined in my 
9 subpoena, but I'm not here because I --
10 Ms. Cheney. Go ahead, Cassidy, and then I have a question I want to follow up 
11 on. 
12 Ms. Hutchinson. No. I was just going to say I'm here, and I'm doing my best to 
13 abide by the guidelines set forth in my subpoena. But I didn't see my role then and I 
14 don't see my role now as needing --having the need to speak out about my personal 
15 opinions on that day and how certain people reacted, just because that wasn't the role I 
16 played. I played a role that was a functional administrative role. 
17 And I think that everybody has opinions about that day, but it wasn't my job then 
18 or now to --to make those a topic of conversation [inaudible] the discussions transpiring 
19 ever since that day occurred. 
20 Ms. Cheney. I just wanted to go back. You mentioned your concern about 
21 gate keeping, and so I wondered if you could tell us who you thought was giving the 
22 President bad advice that day. 
23 Ms. Hutchinson. I don't necessarily know --let me rephrase. I don't --I'm 
24 reluctant to define it as bad advice, because I don't implicitly know of the specific advice 
25 that was given to him. I think that there could have been periods where there was --the  162 
1 advice was better vetted to get to the President. Does that make sense? 
2 Ms. Cheney. So who are you concerned about vetting? 
3 Ms. Hutchinson. I think in --whether it's a political operation or any professional 
4 operation, the person who is the principal in charge of a company or congressional office 
5 or the President of the United States needs to only have the best advice provided to 
6 them, especially in times of consequence, and information that's thoroughly vetted and 
7 from a circle of individuals that is implicitly trusted with the boss' best interests. 
8 And that day, there were a lot of opinions floating around, just because of the 
9 gravity of the situation that was unfolding at the Capitol. And it's not to the President's 
10 fault, it's not to the chief of staff's fault specifically. It's not to anyone's fault specifically. 
11 I just think that there was a lot of action and conversations that happened that day that 
12 could have been avoided that could have perhaps led to a different outcome. 
13 But, again, this is speculation on my end. I'm doing the best to answer you all's 
14 questions. I just --it's difficult to kind of draw the line between what's factual and was a 
15 firsthand account of my day there versus like how I feel in the months transpiring, if that 
16 makes any sense. 
17 Ms. Cheney. Yeah. I understand. 
18 Can you talk about whether you heard specifically that day or later about anybody 
19 wanting to have the President delay saying something? 
20 
21 Ms. Hutchinson. Not that I can recall right now. 
Ms. Cheney. And when you talk about vetting the information that was getting 
22 to the President, were there any people in particular that you had concerns about the 
23 advice they were giving the President, specifics? I'm asking for, you know, specific 
24 individuals you were concerned about. 
25 Ms. Hutchinson. No. I just know in days leading up to the 6th or in the period,  163 
1 the postelection period that is described in my subpoena, there were times where we just 
2 had a very tailored and focused group of individuals that would go talk to him about 
3 things that were of sensitive subject matter. 
4 And that day, January 6, 2021, there were a lot of people around, and, you know, 
5 it's difficult to gate-keep in a situation like that, especially in a moment of crisis and 
6 consequence, but it's --it's not necessarily something that I think I can speak to in terms 
7 of the regulation and the flow of people in and out. I just know that, that day, there 
8 were more people around than I think that we had originally anticipated. 
9 Ms. Cheney. And any of those individuals in particular that's --and I understand 
10 what you're saying in terms of numbers of people. I'm just trying to understand who 
11 raised your concern. 
12 Ms. Hutchinson. I don't think it was a specific individual, individual or group of 
13 individuals that set off a red flag in my peripheral. And just to be clear, any red flags 
14 that were set off in my peripheral weren't pertaining to my distrust or disinterest in a 
15 person or group of people specifically. 
16 It was just there were more people around and that wanted their opinions heard 
17 and wanted their voices heard that day that were getting a little bit more access or had a 
18 little bit more jurisdiction to have their grievances heard. And it just created this 
19 vacuum for a lot of opinions to kind of circulate that I think inhibited a quicker response. 
20 Ms. Cheney. And what were those opinions? 
21 Ms. Hutchinson. That I can recall right now, I mean, I think what I've previously 
22 stated, the context of a tweet, if a tweet at all. It should be a different form of media 
23 how people were going to consume this. 
24 I wasn't intricately involved in vetting all of these requests and intakes. There 
25 was --in the West Wing, the West Wing staff that day was pretty pared down. There  164 
1 were a lot of road closures, as I know you all are aware of, but that's not to say there 
2 wasn't anybody on campus at all. 
3 And I just think the subject matter, given the gravity of the situation, was 
4 something widely discussed amongst a lot of people. 
5 Ms. Cheney. Okay. I know this is a difficult day to relive, and I appreciate the 
6 circumstances and the challenges. And I know we also need to do a call here at 4. So 
7 it might be,_, a good time to take a break and then come back as soon as we 
8 can. 
9 Mr.- Yeah, that's exactly what we'll do. 
10 And, Ms. Hutchinson, yes, thank you. Look, I get that it's hard. We're bringing 
11 you back through things that are difficult to relive. So thank you for your patience with 
12 us as we try to get as much detail as we can out of you. We appreciate it. 
13 Mr. Passantino. Yeah, and if I can just say that before we hop off, though, I 
14 think --I think in fairness, I mean, to this young woman who's done nothing but trying to 
15 serve her country and responding to a subpoena who has not been able to get a job 
16 because of this and maybe because of other things, I just want to really sort of 
17 strenuously request of this committee that it would not be I think fair to her to have her 
18 opinion about actions or inactions of others be quoted in a report when it's, candidly, the 
19 job of this committee. 
20 You have the subpoena power. You have the facts. You can make your 
21 assessments of who did what and who did not do what and whether it was appropriate or 
22 not appropriate. And I can't tell you how strongly I am requesting that this woman's 
23 opinions about what maybe should or should not have been done or who's to blame or 
24 who should have been a better gatekeeper, it's not fair to quote her in that this is a 
25 devastating moment for a young woman's career, and she's here, and she's voluntarily  165 
1 cooperating. 
2 All I can ask is that that's your assessment. That's your prerogative. Make the 
3 assessments that you're going to make, but don't put it in her mouth because it's a 
4 devastating impact that's going to have on her. She's here to describe everything she 
5 saw, everything she heard, and be honest and factual. 
6 And I'm just --I'm just pleading with this committee not to use her as collateral 
7 damage pawn to maybe drive wedges between larger forces, which this town can do. 
8 And so that's my request of this committee; that she's done everything you can ask of her 
9 and given her own personal opinion, which is, candidly, not relevant, but we're here, and 
10 please don't make her suffer for that. 
11 Ms. Cheney. And, Mr. Passantino, we very much respect Ms. Hutchinson's 
12 responsible and professional engagement with this committee. Obviously, these are 
13 issues and moments that a number of us lived through directly and fully recognize the 
14 challenges that she's facing. 
15 And so I think that you will understand certainly that our questions are very much 
16 focused on the facts of what was happening inside the West Wing on that day, the facts 
17 of why there was a delay. And so our intention is absolutely to get to the facts, to 
18 understand what happened, and not in any way at all to cause damage here but very 
19 much to get to the facts. 
20 And, you know, we'll continue to have discussions about that, but certainly we're 
21 very grateful for Ms. Hutchinson's appearance, recognizing that it's under subpoena, but 
22 certainly understand that our questions are focused on exactly what you've described, 
23 getting to the facts of what happened that day. 
24 Mr. Passantino. And, Congresswoman, we appreciate that, and I have not 
25 stopped her from answering. I'm only asking what gets reported to the press, what gets  166 
1 put in public reports is different from the facts that you all have, and I'm just asking you 
2 to be conscious. I am not stopping her from giving her facts. I'm asking you to be 
3 respectful in what makes its way to the press and what makes its way into public reports, 
4 to be conscious of that. 
5 
6 Ms. Cheney. We appreciate that. Thank you. 
Mr Ms. Luria, do you have something? I saw you came off of your 
7 dark screen. 
8 Ms. Luria. No. I just wanted to echo what Ms. Cheney said. I really 
9 appreciate Ms. Hutchinson's willingness to speak to the committee and share so much 
10 information. So thank you again. 
11 
12 Mr. - So why don't we take a break until 4:30 or so. It's 4:09. 
Mr._ Does that work for you, Mr. Passantino? 
13 Mr- We can just text you or call you when we're done. It shouldn't 
14 take more than 15 or 20 minutes. 
15 
16 back. 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 Mr. Passantino. Yes. -just call me or text me when you're ready to come 
Mr- Okay. 
Mr- Thank you. 
Mr.- We'll go off the record. Thank you. 
[Recess.] 
Mr. Let's go back on the record. It's 4:36 February 23rd, and we're 
22 resuming the transcribed interview of Ms. Cassidy Hutchinson. 
23 BY MR. 
24 Q So I ask that we bring back up exhibit No. 8, please. And this is that chief of 
25 staff 3-by-5 card. I just have a few final questions about this.  167 
1 And I remember you saying, I think, that you don't recall exactly who called and 
2 more or less dictated this to you, but if we can go through a couple categories. 
3 Do you remember if it was a man or a woman? 
4 A Honestly, I recognize this because I know that's my rushed handwriting. 
5 have absolutely no idea a timeframe, who could have called to give me this information 
6 to relay to him. I wish I could be helpful to you on that front. 
7 
8 Q 
A Okay. 
I had --I was fielding a lot of incoming that afternoon, as I'm sure you can 
9 imagine. So I'll continue to think about it. I thought about this during our break too. 
10 I --it's --I have absolutely no idea, especially without my official call records. 
11 Q Okay. Fair enough. And then, on the message itself, "illegally" is crossed 
12 out and it's followed by the word "without." 
13 Is that something you remember crossing out, because it's something you wanted 
14 to do or somebody else asked you to cross that out, or it was kind of being revised as it 
15 was being dictated to you? 
16 A I'm not sure. Now, what I can tell you is that's not how I cross things out, 
17 so it's unlikely that I crossed it out. I typically don't --I don't put a horizontal dash 
18 through things. 
19 So, you know, I don't recall crossing that out. I don't recall anybody else crossing 
20 that out. It very easily could have happened from somebody else it was passed to after I 
21 passed it into the room with the chief of staff. 
22 Q And do you remember giving this to the chief of staff, Mr. Meadows, when 
23 you first went in to tell him about what was happening at the Capitol, or was it sometime 
24 later? 
25 A It was sometime later than that because when I initially went into his office  168 
1 that afternoon, it was just the brief and concise conversation that I discussed and 
2 elaborated on earlier this afternoon. 
3 Q Okay. And you can pull up exhibit No. 9, please. This is a tweet that the 
4 President sent from his account, at 2:24 p.m., on January 6th, and it says that: Mike 
5 Pence didn't have the courage to do what should have been done to protect our Country 
6 and our Constitution, giving States a chance to certify a corrected set of facts, not the 
7 fraudulent or inaccurate ones which they were asked to previously certify. USA 
8 demands the truth! 
9 Do you remember this tweet coming out? 
10 
11 
12 A 
Q 
A Yes, I remember the tweet going out. 
What do you remember about the tweet going out? 
Nothing more than I had received a Twitter notification on my personal cell 
13 phone that he had tweeted. And I opened it up, looked at it, and that's pretty much the 
14 extent of --
15 
16 
17 
18 Q 
A 
Q 
A Okay. Did you have any involvement in preparing this tweet? 
I did not. 
Do you know if Mr. Meadows did? 
I don't want to speculate or hypothesize whether he had involvement on 
19 this. I --he had involvement on drafts of tweets throughout that afternoon, but I don't 
20 know about this one specifically. 
21 Q 
22 this tweet? 
23 
24 A 
Q So you don't know. He never told you that he was involved in preparing 
Not this particular tweet, no. 
All right. And I'll reference the fact --we don't need to pull it back up, but 
25 that 3-by-5 card or whatever that chief of staff card that we were just referring to in  169 
1 exhibit No. 8, do you remember if you gave that to Mr. Meadows before or after this 
2 tweet came out? 
I don't remember. 3 
4 A 
Q Okay. If we can go to exhibit No. 10, this is a tweet that came out about 14 
5 minutes later and it says: Please support our Capitol Police and Law Enforcement. 
6 They are truly on the side of our country. Stay peaceful! 
7 Do you remember this tweet on January 6th? 
8 A I remember the tweet going out because I received a Twitter notification on 
9 my personal cell phone. 
10 Q Do you remember any discussions about this tweet or the need to issue 
11 another tweet following the one from 14 minutes earlier that we just looked at? 
12 A I remember there being conversations about taking the response further. 
13 am not sure this tweet is an exact product of that or if this tweet was preplanned to go 
14 out in a specified timeframe after the first tweet had gone out. 
15 Q And when you say there were discussions about a need to go further, can 
16 you just be a little bit more clear and explain that? 
17 A Again, as I had previously stated in our earlier conversation, there were a lot 
18 of opinions on how people felt that --how staffers felt that we should react to the events 
19 unfolding at the Capitol. And it was of the opinion of some of my former colleagues that 
20 the initial first tweet was not enough action taking --taken from the President and that 
21 he should continue to put out a more definitive response to discourage the events that 
22 were unfolding at the Capitol. 
23 But, again, those were opinions of my former colleagues. I --I can't recall 
24 specifically who had those opinions, as there were a lot of opinions floating around the 
25 afternoon, floating around the West Wing that afternoon.  170 
1 Q Okay. I want to ask you about one person in particular, only because 
2 there's been some reporting about her and her role, and that's lvanka Trump. 
3 Do you remember lvanka Trump and her role in having the President issue tweets 
4 that day? 
5 A Ms. Trump was actively encouraging the former President to give a definitive 
6 response, but the conversations that happened between her and her father happened in 
7 the Oval dining room, where I didn't have any insight to what was happening in there. 
8 Other than what's been previously reported on, I don't have anything else to add to that 
9 narrative. 
10 Q Okay. Did you learn at some point on January 6th that Ms. Trump had to 
11 go in more than once to try to get her father to issue a statement and address what was 
12 happening at the Capitol on January 6th? 
13 A I witnessed her walking in the direction of the Oval dining room several 
14 times that afternoon, but I didn't learn of that from conversations I had with any other 
15 individuals in the West Wing. 
16 Q Did she tell you why she was going to talk to her father in the Oval dining 
17 room? 
18 A She told me during her initial meeting with Mr. Meadows earlier in the 
19 afternoon or prior to going in the dining room that she felt that he needed to take action. 
20 Mr. Meadows was willing to hear out what she was going to specify, and they went down 
21 to the Oval dining room initially together. And that's the extent of the conversation and 
22 interaction I had with Ms. Trump that afternoon. 
23 Q Do you remember any particular message that she had proposed or 
24 recommended? 
25 A Nothing in particular. Just, again, as I previously stated, she felt that he  1 needed to issue a response, and she sought the guidance and assistance from Mr. 
2 Meadows and his presence as she delivered that recommendation to the President. 
3 And Mr. Meadows willingly went down to the Oval dining room with her. 
Q At some point in the afternoon, Ms. Trump --and you can take this down, 
--Ms. Trump, lvanka Trump specifically, issued her own tweet about what was 
happening at the Capitol. 171 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 Do you know whether that was because the President was reluctant to issue his 
own tweet to address what was happening at the Capitol? 
9 A I think that's a question that Ms. Trump is better suited to answer than 
10 myself. I don't know if her motivations behind putting her own tweet out were because 
11 she felt her father should take more action or if she felt that she also had a voice that 
12 would be valued and could potentially make a difference on the Hill. 
13 But, again, I don't know her motivations, and that's a question that I think that 
14 she'd be better suited to answer than myself. 
15 Q Fair enough. Did she say anything to you, like she did this because 
16 something had to be done and nothing was being done yet? 
17 
18 
19 A 
Q She did not. 
If we could pull up exhibit No. 11, please. 
So, around 2:44 p.m., Ashli Babbitt was shot and later died in the Capitol. This is, 
20 in exhibit No. 11, a note on the, I think you referred to it earlier kind of the more generic 
21 letterhead or note cards, and it says: 1X civilian gunshot wound to chest@ door of 
22 House Chamber. 
23 Do you recognize the writing on this? 
24 
25 A 
Q I don't. 
Have you ever seen this before?  172 
I have not. 1 
2 A 
Q How did you first find out, if you remember, that somebody had been shot in 
3 the Capitol that afternoon? 
4 A I don't recall exactly, but my --I'm inclined to say that it was on Twitter. 
5 Q Were people discussing within the White House on January 6th that 
6 somebody had been shot in the Capitol? 
7 A It was absolutely the topic of conversation, but I wasn't privy to any 
8 conversations that were consequential and were raised to the chief of staff. I think, by 
9 that point, things had progressed enough to where he was operating on his own down in 
10 the Oval dining with the President. 
11 Q Do you know if the fact of somebody being shot in the Capitol was a 
12 motivation to do anything, like release another tweet or prompt a more intense 
13 discussion about making a video? 
14 
15 A 
Q I'm not sure. 
I'd ask that you bring up exhibit No. 6, page 7. 7. 
16 And this is your tweets with --or, excuse me, text messages with Mr. Ornate, 
17 again, on January 6th. And this date stamp shows 1449, so 2:49 in the afternoon, you 
18 say: We're not at-right? 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 Mr. Ornate says: Yeah. 
Then you say: Yeah we are, or yeah we are not. 
Can you just explain for us what this conversation is about and refers to? 
A 
Q Yes. Can I have one moment to consult with my attorney? 
Of course. 
[Discussion off the record.] 
Mr. Passantino. We were just having a conversation about sort of the  173 
1 -and whether that's sensitive. I don't believe that it is. I've told her she can 
2 discuss it, but I'd ask for the same --make a notation here just on the off chance that 
3 we're wrong and that there is some security sensitivity to what she's going to discuss. 
4 I don't think that there is, but that was what our conversation was. I'd just ask 
5 you to indulge as she's answering. Make a note in the record that this might be 
6 something you want to look at as potentially not publicly releasable. 
Mr- Understood. I appreciate that. 
Mr. Passantino. Go ahead, you can answer. 7 
8 
9 Ms. Hutchinson. So there's various conditions at the White House that describe, 
10 from a national security standpoint, what our security protocol should be. So during 
11 this --
Mr. Passantino. Can I interrupt you? 
Ms. Hutchinson. Yes. 
Mr. Passantino. Don't discuss what's done under those --
Ms. Hutchinson. Right, right. 
Mr. Passantino. You can just describe [inaudible] typically. Okay. 12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 Ms. Hutchinson. So, at this point in time, I was over in the Eisenhower Building 
18 with Mr. Meadows' Secret Service detail. And they didn't have their earpieces in, so 
19 they couldn't hear any announcements that were going over the radio. And we had 
20 heard from somebody else that had come in the secure room, their secure room, that we 
21 had moved into 
22 
23 And that's when I texted Mr. Ornate to ask if we were in 
we're in then security protocol has been slightly heightened at the 
24 White House on the premises, which requires different action on the end of the So, if 
25 individuals protecting the protectees that they're designated to, that they're assigned to.  174 
1 So I texted Mr. Ornate just to confirm that we actually had moved into-so 
2 they could react appropriately with the protocols they had set forward. 
3 BYMR.-
4 Q Understood. Now, this was just about 5 minutes after in the time line of 
5 events Mr. Babbitt --or, excuse me, Ms. Babbitt had been shot at the Capitol. Is it --is 
6 your question at all related to the fact of that shooting? 
7 A I didn't ask Mr. Ornate this question because the shooting had transpired. 
8 had asked Mr. Ornate this question because we had received word that we had moved 
9 into And I'm not certain if we moved in because of 
10 the shooting. 
11 
12 Q If we could pull up exhibit No. 12, please. 
This is another tweet that the President issued on January 6th. This one's at 3:13 
13 p.m., and he says: I am asking for everyone at the U.S. Capitol to remain peaceful. No 
14 violence! Remember, we are the party of law and order -respect the law and our great 
15 men and women in blue. Thank you! 
16 
17 
18 
19 tweet? 
20 Do you remember this tweet coming out on January 6th? 
A 
Q 
A I do. 
Did you have anything to do with the creation or editing or revising of this 
No. Mr. Meadows had brought a copy of this tweet back to the office and 
21 had shown it to me and perhaps Mr. Williamson --I don't --I can't recall if Mr. Williamson 
22 was present during this --and asked if I had any input on it. And I believe I just said 
23 something along the lines of whatever you think is best at this point. And then he 
24 retreated back to the Oval dining room. 
25 Q Okay. When you saw it, was it a handwritten draft, or was it actually typed  175 
1 up and looked kind of like this? 
2 A It was typed up at the time, but it wasn't in the format that you have it here. 
3 Obviously, it hadn't gone out on Twitter yet, so it didn't have the --Mr. Trump's Twitter 
4 handle attached to the top of it. 
5 Q Sure. And what did Mr. Meadows say, if anything, about why send another 
6 tweet? This is now I believe the third or so tweet after the violence had started at the 
7 Capitol. So why the need for this one? 
8 A He didn't have any additional commentary to offer to me, and I didn't press 
9 the issue any further. 
10 Q Did he indicate whether the President had suggested this or whether this 
11 was a suggestion made to the President that he send out? 
12 
13 A He didn't indicate one or the other to me. 
Q All right. If we can go to exhibit No. 2 at page 3, this is back to the daily 
14 diary from January 6th. Do you see a time stamp there starting 1:17 in the far left 
15 column? That's when it shows the President returned to the White House, and then, at 
16 1:19, the President is in the Oval Office. And it looks like he stayed in the Oval Office 
17 until --or, excuse me, the --yeah, in the Oval Office, according to the diary, until 4:03 
18 p.m., when the President went to the Rose Garden. 
19 Do you know if the President ever left the Oval Office or the dining room at the 
20 Oval Office during that period? 
21 
22 A Can you say the time stamps again? I'm sorry. 
Q Yes, of course. At 1:19, there's an entry that says the President returned to 
23 the Oval Office. And then the next movement it shows is, at 4:03, the President went to 
24 the Rose Garden. 
25 So the question is, do you know whether the President ever left the Oval Office or  176 
1 the dining room between 1:19 and 4:03? 
2 A Definitively, I don't --I don't know, although I would have heard movements 
3 on my Secret Service radio, and I don't recall hearing any movements that afternoon. 
4 Q And we understand that the 4:03 entry is that the President goes to the Rose 
5 Garden and then participated in a videotaping session of a message to supporters. 
6 Can you tell us about discussions within the White House about the video or the 
7 need for a video statement and then what would be said in the video statement that you 
8 recall? 
9 A I recall people having discussions with the chief of staff in the moments of 
10 time that he spent in his personal office as opposed to the Oval dining room and 
11 discussing the context behind the video. 
12 I remember a few people going in to have conversations with him about what they 
13 believe the President should say and if there was any draft speeches that individuals 
14 could look over. I can't recall specifically who went into his personal office to have 
15 those conversations with him. 
16 But Mr. Meadows was also back and forth during that period, reiterating 
17 information that he had discussed with people he met with and just helping this progress 
18 along. 
19 Q Do you remember if Ms. lvanka Trump was one of the people who 
20 encouraged the video statement? 
21 A I don't recall if she was one of the people that encouraged the video 
22 statement. 
23 Q What about Kayleigh McEnany, do you remember if she encouraged a video 
24 statement? 
25 A Again, I don't --I don't recall Ms. McEnany encouraging a video statement  177 
1 versus a tweet. I remember both Ms. McEnany and Ms. Trump encouraging a 
2 statement from the President, but I --the format and how it was going to be consumed 
3 media-wise I don't recall. 
4 Q Okay. Now, you've mentioned I think --and I don't want to put words in 
5 your mouth, but you mentioned there being a draft speech. Did I hear that correctly? 
6 A Whether or not there was going to be a specific speech that was outlined or 
7 it was more going to be an impromptu, more candid speech that wasn't as scripted on the 
8 President's end. 
9 Q Do you remember if anybody drafted remarks for the President to deliver in 
10 a video message that day? 
11 A I don't recall. 
12 
13 Q If you could pull up exhibit No. 13, please. 
And I know you said you don't recall, Ms. Hutchinson. That's totally fine. I'm 
14 showing you this and some of the exhibits, candidly, to see if it shakes anything loose, 
15 understanding that it's been a while since these events took place. 
16 So what this is, this is a document, again, exhibit No. 13, it's titled "remarks" and it 
17 says: I urge all of my supporters to do exactly as 99 percent of them have already been 
18 doing -express their passions and opinions peacefully. 
19 And then it goes on and says: My supporters have a right to have their voices 
20 heard, but make no mistake -no one should be using violence or threats of violence to 
21 express themselves. Especially at the U.S. Capitol. Let's respect our institutions. 
22 Let's all do better. I am asking you to leave the Capitol Hill region now and go home in a 
23 peaceful way. 
24 Do you remember ever seeing this draft set of remarks or anything like it on the 
25 afternoon of January 6th?  178 
1 A I don't recall specifically seeing this exact draft of remarks, but now that I see 
2 this --and thank you again for putting these exhibits up --I remember Mr. Meadows 
3 having a copy of draft remarks at some point in the afternoon. 
4 Now, I don't know if it was this exact draft, if there was any markups on it or any 
5 personal edit that he had made or another person had made. But I remember he 
6 had --he had this in his hand at one point and had gone into his office, and at another 
7 point had come out and asked if we could photocopy it and then said: Never mind, I just 
8 need to go back down. 
9 Q Okay. And when you say "go back down," you mean back to the Oval 
10 dining room? 
11 
12 A 
Q That is correct. Sorry, I should have clarified. 
Okay. So is this --to your memory, is this --did you first see this or 
13 something like this before the President delivered his videotaped address at roughly 4 
14 o'clock in the afternoon on January 6th? 
15 A I saw Mr. Meadows with a draft statement. I can't attest to whether it was 
16 a draft for another tweet that they thought about putting out or the draft remarks here. 
17 At this point, I remember hearing discussion about filming a video, but I didn't ask him for 
18 clarification on what the context and purpose was behind the draft remarks that he had 
19 in his hand when he came back to the office during that brief period. 
20 Q And just to put a fine point on it, did Mr. Meadows ever tell you or suggest 
21 to you that the draft remarks he was working on that may have looked something like 
22 these were for a video address? 
23 A Yes. He --he had discussed that they were going to film a video address, 
24 but we didn't --I didn't elaborate or ask him any further questions about whether or not 
25 the draft in his hand was a tweet or draft remarks for the video.  179 
1 I don't know. I know that he had draft statements and it's --they were in a 
2 similar format to how --this is how we would format everything for the President. So it 
3 was --it's very likely that it was these remarks for the video, but I can't speak definitively 
4 about that matter. 
5 Q Okay. Something you just said was really interesting. This format in 
6 particular was a format that you used when certain paperwork was going to go to the 
7 President. Is that right? 
8 A That is correct. 
9 Q What about this format stands out? 
10 A This might be a very uninteresting answer for you all, but we would do 
11 frequently between size 20 to 24 font. Calibri I believe is the way it's pronounced was 
12 the type of font. And that way, it would just fill --and narrow margins. That way, it 
13 would just fill the space, and it was easy to read and legible to mark up and make easy 
14 edits. 
15 Q Very helpful. Appreciate that. Thank you. We like the uninteresting 
16 answers as well. 
17 If we can go to exhibit No. 15, please. 
18 This is a text exchange that you provided to us with Ben, initials BW. I assume 
19 that's Ben Williamson. Is that right? 
20 
21 A 
Q Yes, sir. 
All right. And, in these messages, page 10 specifically, at around 4:54, you 
22 have an exchange about bringing people home and then you say: Mark and Tony want 
23 all of us to leave by 5/5:15. Like legit gone, not just the be safe go home don't stay for 
24 me gone. And then you talk about leaving and arranging rides. 
25 So can you explain, please, the conversation that you had with Mr. Meadows or  180 
1 Mr. Ornate that led to this? 
2 A Absolutely. I mean, just bluntly, I feel like the texts speak for themselves. 
3 They wanted us to leave by 5 o'clock, 5:15. They wanted us gone before it got too dark. 
4 I believe that the mayor had called a curfew at this point --please correct me if I'm 
5 wrong --in that --that timeline. But to adhere to campus security protocol and what 
6 was in place on behalf of the District of Columbia, they just wanted us to head home. 
7 And the message where I said, "like legit gone, not just the be safe go home don't 
8 stay for me gone," that just expands on Mr. Meadows' tendency to feel guilty if he was 
9 staying late and preventing his staffers from going home at a reasonable hour. He 
10 always would make a point to say that, you know: Don't just stay for me, go home and 
11 enjoy your night if you have other things to do. 
12 Q And did --was it your understanding did people actually leave the White 
13 House, per those instructions? 
14 
15 A Yes. 
Q Did Mr. Ornate have any different message that he conveyed to you? 
16 only ask because the message refers to both Mr. Meadows and Mr. Ornate. 
17 A No. Mr. Ornate is the one that provided the guidance --is the individual 
18 that provided the guidance to Mr. Meadows about the timeframe that would be ideal, 
19 from his professional experience, that would be best to get staffers out of the White 
20 House, off the White House complex. And Mr. Meadows accepted it and adopted it and 
21 asked to relay it appropriately. 
22 Q You can pull up exhibit No. 16, please. 
23 This is a tweet from the President at 6:01 p.m., and I'll stop there before I get to 
24 the substance of it. Do you think that you had already left the White House by 6:01 p.m. 
25 on January 6th?  181 
1 A I don't recall. I remember staying a little past 5:15. I left around the time 
2 that Mr. Meadows had left, because I left the West Wing and I went and sat over in the 
3 Eisenhower Building with the security detail just to make sure that they were set to go. 
4 And then, once they received word from him that they were going to start heading home 
5 with him is when I had left. 
6 Q The message here is that these are the things and events --and just for the 
7 record, excuse me, to be clear, this is exhibit No. 16. 
8 So the message is: These are the things and events that happen when a sacred 
9 landslide election victory is so unceremoniously and viciously stripped away from great 
10 patriots who have been badly and unfairly treated for so long. Go home with love and 
11 in peace. Remember this day forever! 
12 
13 
14 phone. 
15 Do you remember this tweet coming out? 
A I remember it because I received a Twitter notification on my personal cell 
Q Do you remember any discussions about crafting or editing or just in general 
16 about the substance of this tweet? 
17 
18 A 
Q Not that I can recall right now. 
Do you remember any discussions about the reaction after this came out to 
19 this? It seemed like there had been an effort to really focus on sending people home at 
20 some point. And this, you know, is a little bit different in it references the election being 
21 stolen and some of the other messaging that had been coming out by then. 
22 
23 A 
Q Can you repeat the question part of that? 
Yeah. Do you remember --absolutely. Fair point. 
24 Do you remember any discussions after this tweet came out about that, the 
25 reactions to it?  182 
1 A No. At that point, I was definitely not in the proximity of any of my former 
2 colleagues when this tweet went out. So I don't know the immediate reaction of any 
3 individuals that I had worked with at the White House. 
4 Q When you went home that afternoon, did you stay in contact with Mr. 
5 Meadows? 
6 A I did not that I can recall. He had dinner plans that evening. And I believe 
7 I reached out to him once he got home to reconfirm that he was not going to pursue his 
8 dinner plans so I could let his security detail know to take the vehicles home because I 
9 had driven home independently that day. 
10 There were some days that I would go in the followup car, but I drove home 
11 independently that day. So I wanted to make sure that I had accurate information 
12 relayed to them that they could take one of the vehicles back to the White House and 
13 switch out for the midnight shift. 
14 And he confirmed that they weren't going to move forward with dinner --him and 
15 his wife weren't going to move forward with the dinner plans away from their home in 
16 Alexandria. And that was the last that I had communicated with him, to my recollection. 
17 Q Okay. Did you speak to the President after you returned home on the night 
18 of January 6th? 
19 A I did not. 
20 
21 night? 
22 
23 Q 
A 
Q 
24 or his staff? 
25 A Do you remember speaking to Dan Scavino after you returned home that 
I did not speak with Mr. Scavino that evening. 
At any point during the day of January 6th, did you talk to the Vice President 
I did not speak with the Vice President on the 6th. I don't recall whether I  183 
1 spoke with any of his staffers. I --him and his --I don't know what his technical title was 
2 so pardon my overreach if I'm paraphrasing here, but his personal aide or his body man, 
3 Zach Bauer, Zach and I spoke frequently. 
4 I believe I placed a call to Zach at some point during the day, but I don't --I don't 
5 recall if we connected. And I'm inclined to say we didn't speak that night, but, again, I 
6 don't have my work cell phone records, so I don't want to --I don't want to confirm or 
7 deny anything that I don't remember specifically. 
8 Q Okay. And, just to be clear, did you connect with Mr. Bauer during the 
9 day? 
10 A I don't believe that we did. I believe I had reached out to him in hopes that 
11 Mr. Meadows could connect with the Vice President, but then I think that request was 
12 dropped, so I didn't follow up after [inaudible]. 
13 Q And was your understanding that Mr. Bauer was with the Vice President at 
14 the Capitol on January 6th? 
15 A Yes. 
16 Q Do you know that for sure, or are you just guessing? 
17 A He was with the Vice President wherever he went, just as I was with the 
18 chief of staff. I didn't have the physical manifest, the Vice President's physical manifest 
19 in front of me that day, but was operating under the assumption and protocol that we 
20 had followed during my tenure serving Mr. Meadows in his office and capacity at the 
21 White House. It wouldn't have been out of the ordinary for me to reach out to Zach. 
22 Q And you said at some point the request to get in touch with the Vice 
23 President through Mr. Bauer was dropped. Why was it dropped? 
24 A I'm not sure. Just it didn't solicit a followup from Mr. Meadows. So it 
25 wasn't something that I felt that I needed to follow up, given the volume of information  184 
1 and events that were transpiring, without an active reupping of the request on his end. 
2 Q Did Mr. Meadows tell you why he wanted you to reach out to connect him 
3 with the Vice President in the first place? 
4 A He didn't. And I --to be honest, I don't recall. It happened at some point 
5 in the afternoon. I don't recall when. 
6 Q Can I give you a point of reference? Do you think it was after the joint 
7 session had stopped and the Vice President was taken away from the Senate Chamber? 
8 A I don't recall specifically. I'm sorry. 
9 Q That's okay. That's perfectly fine. 
10 I'll pause here and see if anybody has any questions on what we've gone over so 
11 far. Okay. 
12 We can go back to exhibit 2, page 4, please. 
13 So there are a number of calls that are reflective --this is the President's daily 
14 diary again --a number of calls that the President had with various folks throughout the 
15 evening on January 6th, including Dan Scavino, Kurt Olson, Cleta Mitchell, Rudy Giuliani, 
16 Kayleigh McEnany and others. 
17 Did you ever learn what the President talked about with Kurt Olson in his calls on 
18 January 6th?  1 
2 [5:12 p.m.] 
3 
4 
5 A 
Q No. 
BYM~ 
Did you ever learn what the President spoke about with Cleta Mitchell on 
6 her --on his call with her on January the 6th? 
7 A No. And to be frank with you, I --I recall the next day the call being 
8 discussed at a top-line level. And calls were frequently discussed. There's very few 185 
9 people that had access to them. But I recall them being discussed from Mr. Ornate to 
10 Mr. Meadows, but I don't --I don't recall the context of any of these calls. 
11 You know, I'm happy if you want to go through individually, but especially after 
12 the day had ended and I was home that night, I --I didn't have any insight and didn't ask 
13 any questions about any events that may or may not have transpired in the course of the 
14 evening. 
15 Q In that recap of the calls the next day, on January the 7th, what do you 
16 remember, if anything, about the nature of the calls that the President had on the 6th? 
17 A Not much. It wasn't out of the ordinary, just by the role of the deputy chief 
18 of staff and his relationship with the chief of staff, Mr. Ornate to Mr. Meadows, 
19 that --just to confirm that there was accurate information relayed on the White House 
20 call logs, or the few times that, you know, people had tried to place calls to him, and it 
21 had gone through on a call record that they connected when they actually hadn't. And 
22 it was just put in by the White House operator as a follow-up call. So it was mostly just a 
23 procedural --procedural conversation, just to make sure that it was accurate, and just 
24 given the sensitivity at that moment in time, to make sure that everything was adequately 
25 reflected.  186 
1 Q Okay. So after the events --or the violence at the Capitol on January the 
2 6th, joint session paused briefly, then they resumed. And when they resumed, there 
3 were some Members who had formerly expressed a willingness to object to the count, 
4 who changed their minds, and they decided no longer to persist in objections. Do you 
5 know what I'm talking about when I --when I say that? 
6 
7 A 
Q I do. 
Okay. So at that point on January 6th, when the Senate and the joint 
8 session was going to resume, do you know what Mr. Meadows or the President expected 
9 with respect to the joint session moving forward? Did they still want all the objections 
10 to be placed, and were they kind of lobbying or counting votes that were in their favor? 
11 
12 A 
Q I'm not sure specifically. 
Was there any effort, that you were aware of, to reach out to Members on 
13 Capitol Hill about the status of their objections when the joint session resumed on 
14 January the 6th? 
15 A Not to my recollection. But it wasn't out of the ordinary, again, for 
16 Mr. Meadows to communicate with his former colleagues, as many of them were friends 
17 and friends of the President. So if he fielded calls, I --it would not have been out of the 
18 ordinary. 
19 Now, the context of those calls, I'm not aware of [inaudible] shortly before 6 p.m. 
20 in my best estimate, I --I know that I didn't receive any calls from Members that night. 
21 Q Okay. Did you ever talk --you know, late that night, Dan Scavino --or 
22 maybe early the next morning, Dan Scavino issued a tweet on the President's behalf, 
23 because the President's Twitter account had been suspended, I believe. Are you familiar 
24 with the tweet I'm referencing? 
25 A I remember the tweet going out on behalf of the President because  187 
1 Mr. Trump's Twitter account had been suspended, but, you know, without having it up on 
2 the screen, I don't recall the context of the tweet. 
3 Q I believe it had something to do with the transition and moving on at that 
4 point. But do you remember having any role in drafting the message that ultimately 
5 became that tweet after the joint session? 
6 A I had very little, if any, involvement during my entire tenure at the White 
7 House with drafting any social media posts. It wasn't my realm, process and then 
8 operation that I'm familiar with, nor do I want to be involved in. 
9 Mr. - Before we leave January 6th, I'll pause and see if any members have 
10 any questions or anybody else in the room has any questions. 
11 Ms. Cheney. -I had a question. 
12 Ms. Hutchinson, when you were talking about the extent to which Deputy Chief of 
13 Staff Ornate and Chief of Staff Meadows went over the call log each day, how did they 
14 handle calls that weren't placed through the switchboard? 
15 Ms. Hutchinson. Two points on that. First, I just want to make sure it was clear 
16 for the record that I'm not sure if they went over the call logs every single day. I just 
17 know it was a frequent thing that they did discuss, as there were very few people that 
18 had access to the President's call logs. And I just --I don't want to seem misarticulated 
19 in the record that they went over it every single day, just as a --
20 
21 Q 
A Okay. 
--point of order on my end here, and I'm sorry if I misarticulated that earlier. 
22 Now, secondary, I wasn't --to my recollection at this moment, I wasn't privy to 
23 any discussions that they had had about calls that weren't placed through the 
24 switchboard. Yeah, I --it wasn't out of the ordinary for there to be somebody on the 
25 phone with a Member of Congress or any individual be in proximity and have the  188 
1 President say something. But I wasn't --I wasn't privy to any conversations between 
2 Mr. Ornate and Mr. Meadows about how was best to document that. That's a question, 
3 I think, that would be better suited for either of them to answer. 
4 Ms. Cheney. Do you --in terms of as a general matter, were you aware of 
5 discussions about how to make sure that calls that weren't placed through the 
6 switchboard were documented? 
7 Ms. Hutchinson. No. And as I previously stated, I --I wasn't privy to any 
8 conversation of substance or consequence of how to accurately record that in historical 
9 records and report that to the White House switchboard. Again, there very well 
10 could've been. It wasn't brought to my attention that I can memorialize or recollect for 
11 you all right now. 
12 Ms. Cheney. Okay. Thank you. 
13 
14 
15 Ms. Hutchinson. Thank you. 
BYM~ 
Q Okay. I'm going to direct your attention to exhibit 33, please, which we will 
16 bring up, and this is another note on chief of staff note cards. I'm going to ask you first 
17 whether you recognize that handwriting. 
18 A Could you scroll down a little bit, please? Is that the extent of it --oh. 
19 
20 Q 
A That's the end of the text there. 
It looks a lot like Mr. Meadows' handwriting, but I --I can't speak definitively 
21 to whether it is or it isn't. 
22 Q Okay. And we won't hold you to be a handwriting expert, but that is 
23 helpful. 
24 Go back to the top, please. 
25 So under where it says chief of staff, it says, "Brief POTUS," underlined, "Marc  189 
1 Short on VP role for Jan 6, 2021." Do you know what this is a reference to? 
Definitively, I do not. 2 
3 A 
Q Okay. Based on your interactions with Mr. Meadows and events that were 
4 happening at the White House around January 6th and early January, do you have any 
5 sense of what this is about? 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 A 
Q 
A May I please have one moment with my attorney? 
Of course. 
Thank you. 
[Discussion off the record.] 
Mr. Passantino. All right. So we want to operate slowly because --and you can 
11 get from Ms. Hutchinson that she doesn't know. We just had a conversation about not 
12 speculating, so I'll let you ask the question again. 
13 Mr.- Yeah. Do you know whether Mr. Meadows briefed the President 
14 about the Vice President's role for January 6, 2021? 
15 Ms. Hutchinson. He --so I don't know if that was the question that was asked, 
16 but --
17 Mr. Passantino. No, no. Right. This question is about do you know whether 
18 the chief --
19 Ms. Hutchinson. Mr. Meadows did brief the President several times about what 
20 may or may not be within the Vice President's scope of jurisdiction in his ceremonial role 
21 and the role that he could play --potentially play in securing the electoral votes with the 
22 election. 
23 But I believe that question you just asked might be slightly different from the first 
24 one, but --I mean, I'll let you take the reins from there. 
25 BYMR- 190 
1 Q Yeah, you're absolutely right, it was different. I was trying to be a little bit 
2 more precise. So I appreciate that. 
3 When did Mr. Meadows brief the President on the Vice President's role for 
4 January 6, 2021, that you recall? 
5 A As we discussed a couple hours ago, there were a lot of theories and ideas 
6 discussed in the period between November and January about the role that the Vice 
7 President could play or options that may or may not be on the table for the outcome of 
8 the Presidential election. I don't know when those conversations were first elevated 
9 specifically pertinent to the Vice President's role and what he may or may not be able to 
10 do. To my recollection and to the best that I can recall, the conversations took more 
11 breadth towards the end of December. 
12 Does that help answer your question? 
13 Q It does. It does. 
14 Did Mr. Meadows tell you what he said to the President when he briefed him on 
15 the Vice President's role? 
16 A I mean, that question would have to be tailored, in my opinion, a little bit 
17 more specific to particular meetings that you might be referencing or certain interactions. 
18 I remember Mr. Meadows talking to me about, you know, as these conversations 
19 began, becoming a little bit more prevalent about, you know, meeting logistics or who he 
20 was going to meet with about said topics. But, again, there were multiple ideas 
21 entertained in this period that, you know, it's, number one, difficult to give the most 
22 specific answer possible for you. But also keeping in mind that it has been widely 
23 reported on and I don't want to --I don't want to elaborate further without you kind of 
24 tailoring a little bit more, because I just want to make sure I'm going in the appropriate 
25 direction to answer your question.  191 
1 Q Yeah. Specifically, did Mr. Meadows tell you, or did you ever learn that 
2 Mr. Meadows told the President, that the Vice President did not have the authority to do 
3 anything but the ceremonial role, as you put it, to count electoral votes as they came in 
4 on January the 6th? 
5 A Mr. Meadows had at different points relayed that other individuals had 
6 expressed that idea and that notion. I don't want to falsely attribute those ideas to 
7 something that Mr. Meadows himself believed because I'm not sure. That's something 
8 that you'd have to ask him. But he was involved in conversations of that nature with 
9 other individuals that felt that it was a potential that Mr. Pence could play that role. 
10 Q I --I understand that, and I think the role --playing the role, I think, goes 
11 back to the conversation that we had about kind of a strategic role of the Vice President 
12 to count or not count certain votes or kick the electoral college votes back to the State. 
13 But do you know whether Mr. Sha---or Mr. Meadows told the President, the Vice 
14 President can't play that strategic role, all he does is count votes on January the 6th? 
15 
16 A 
Q I just want to make sure I heard you correctly, that he can or he can't? 
He cannot play that strategic role that John Eastman and others are putting 
17 forth, that the Vice President's only role is to count the electoral votes as they come in on 
18 January 6th. Did Mr. Meadows say that to the President? 
19 A I wasn't present for many of the President and Mr. Meadows' conversations, 
20 so I can't attest to that personally. 
21 Q I understand that. Did he ever tell you that that's what he told the 
22 President or that that's what his position was? 
23 
24 A 
Q We didn't elaborate on it further than that. 
Based on your interactions with Mr. Meadows, did he agree with John 
25 Eastman and his theories that the Vice President could play, what we're calling here, the  192 
1 strategic role on January 6th? 
2 A Mr. Meadows was open to hearing theories from individuals that had 
3 knowledge and had conducted research in these areas. I didn't ask him his personal 
4 opinions on this, and he, to my recollection, didn't share anything with me that hasn't 
5 already been previously elaborated on. 
6 Q So Mr. Meadows never told you whether he agreed with John Eastman and 
7 others that the President --the Vice President could play a strategic role or whether the 
8 Vice President could not play a strategic role? 
9 A He was willing to listen and entertain and consider those ideas and raise 
10 them with the appropriate counsel inside the White House. But I'm not sure and I 
11 cannot personally attest to whether or not he believed that there was any credibility 
12 behind that theory. 
13 Q Sure. And I'm not going for his beliefs, just what you saw and heard from 
14 Mr. Meadows. So I guess I'll just ask you again, did Mr. Meadows --oh, go ahead, I'm 
15 sorry, Ms. Hutchinson. 
16 A That would be reflective of his beliefs, if I'm understanding your question 
17 correctly. 
18 Q Well, I'm just asking what he told you. So, you know, yes, he may convey 
19 his own beliefs, but I'm interested in what he told you. I'm not asking you to speculate. 
20 So did he ever tell you that he thought the Vice President could play the strategic 
21 role that John Eastman and others were suggesting he could on January the 6th? 
22 A I --I don't recall specifically. Again, I try to be as clear as I possibly can. 
23 He didn't --I didn't ask him any further questions and he didn't elaborate with me. 
24 didn't ask him if he thought that this was a plausible theory, to my recollection. He 
25 didn't provide to me any insight or knowledge to whether he thought that there was any  193 
1 credibility behind this. 
2 What I know is that he was willing to hear the opinions and institutional 
3 knowledge of other individuals in order to adequately assess the situation that he was 
4 confronted with. But whether or not he was willing to accept this as a viable option, I 
5 don't know. 
6 I know that it was pursued at a higher level conversation, but, again, you would 
7 have to ask Mr. Meadows whether or not he believed that there was any reasonable way 
8 that this could have been a possibility. I'm not sure. 
9 Mr. Passantino. All right. And I let her answer, but you've asked 
10 her this like five times now. 
11 Mr. - Right. And I'm just trying to get a sense. I know that there was 
12 some maybe misunderstanding about whether I was asking her to speculate about 
13 Mr. Meadows' beliefs. I'm just --to be clear, I'm just asking about what she knows. So 
14 one more question on this and then I'll move on. 
15 BYMR.-
16 Q Do you know what Mr. Meadows --or how Mr. Meadows advised the 
17 President with respect to John Eastman and his theory about the Vice President? 
18 A I don't know the specifics of the meeting that happened that evening when 
19 they all met. I don't know the specifics of Mr. Meadows' conversations with the 
20 President leading up to the meeting. What I do know is Mr. Meadows became aware of 
21 Mr. Eastman's theories. I don't know who first brought those theories to Mr. Meadows' 
22 attention. I know that Mr. Meadows did his best to vet the theory as much as he 
23 possibly could prior to the meeting to ensure that it was something that he felt was 
24 worthy of elevating to the President. 
25 Q Okay. But you don't know how he advised the President on that?  1 A I do not. I was not present for those discussions between him and the 
2 President. 
Q 
A And he never told you afterwards? 
He did not, and I did not ask him. 
Mr. Passantino. [Inaudible.] 
BYMR.-194 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 Q Are you aware of a meeting or a call between Marc Short and Mr. Meadows 
8 about the Vice President's role on January 6th? 
9 A Mr. Meadows and Mr. Short communicated frequently, especially during this 
10 period, and, you know, I've --maybe one of our graphics here should be the layout of the 
11 West Wing, because Mr. Short and Mr. Pence's office is caddy-corner to the chief of 
12 staff's main office and his personal office. You have to go through the main office to get 
13 to his personal office. But Mr. Short was frequently in and out of our office during that 
14 time period. 
15 I --I know that they spoke frequently on the phone. I know that they met 
16 frequently in person. I don't know the context behind a specific meeting that you may 
17 be asking about or if it was just generally speaking during this period. But, yeah, 
18 I --does that help answer your question? 
19 Q It does, yes. And last question on this point, but do you know whether they 
20 spoke about the role of the Vice President specifically? 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A I think that was the purpose of their communications during this period. 
How many times do you think they talked about it, if you know? 
I have absolutely no idea. 
Do you think it was more than once? 
Yes.  195 
1 Q Okay. And when you say it was frequent during that period, are you talking 
2 about --or I guess, give us the period, if you don't mind. 
3 A Scope of my subpoena, which is January --or November 1st 'til at least 
4 January 31st, 2021. I'm not sure the specific dates. 
5 Q Okay. And I think earlier you mentioned kind of the breadth of these 
6 conversations or the frequency of these conversations increased in the late December to 
7 January timeframe about, particularly, the Vice President's role. Is that right? 
8 A Correct. And naturally because we were approaching January 6th, which 
9 was when the election was going to be certified anyway. 
10 
11 
12 Q Okay. Anything further on any of that? 
All right. If we can go to exhibit No. 17. 
I don't know if you recall, but the day after January 6th, on January the 7th, the 
13 President put out another video. Do you remember discussions about the need for the 
14 President to put out another video the next day, on January the 7th? 
15 A I don't remember conversations of this happening on January 6th, but I 
16 remember on January 7th, there were conversations about filming the video. 
17 Q Who were --who were --who was --excuse me --involved in those 
18 conversations about filming another video on January 7th? 
19 A I don't --I don't specifically recall right now. I got to work a little late. 
20 think I got to work around 10:30 or 11 a.m. on January 7th. I remember getting to the 
21 office and knowing that these conversations were underway. I'd seen a little bit of 
22 email traffic about it that morning, if I'm remembering correctly. Any individual --
23 
24 
25 Q 
A 
Q Do you remember -­
Yeah. 
Do you remember if Mr. Meadows was involved in those conversations  1 about the need to put out a video on January 7th? 
2 A He was, and he was very involved in those conversations throughout his 
3 tenure as chief of staff. 
Do you know whether the President wanted to do a video on the 7th? 
I do not. 196 
4 
5 
6 Q 
A 
Q So what we're looking at here is exhibit No. 17, and I'll represent to you that 
7 these are remarks that the President made on a video on January the 7th, as edited in 
8 those handwriting, more or less. 
9 I draw your attention to kind of the bottom of the screen where there's 
10 handwritten comments that say, "will pay." Do you recognize that handwriting? 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q I do. 
Whose is it? 
Pardon me? 
Whose handwriting is that? 
Mr. Trump's. 
And in your experience in the White House, is this how Mr. Trump would 
17 edit, he would receive sometimes maybe a hard copy document and then handwrite his 
18 own edits? 
19 
20 A 
Q Yes, sir. 
Do you remember any meetings or conversations about the edits to the 
21 remarks he delivered on January the 7th? 
22 
23 A 
Q Could you repeat the question one more time? I'm sorry. 
Sure. No, that's fine. Do you remember any meetings or conversations 
24 about the remarks that he was going to deliver on the 7th, in particular, his edits to the 
25 remarks?  197 
I don't. 1 
2 A 
Q All right. One of the things he crossed out --or that's crossed out on this, 
3 says: I am directing DOJ to ensure all lawbreakers are prosecuted to the fullest extent of 
4 the law. We must send a clear message and not with mercy but with justice. Legal 
5 consequences must be swift and firm. 
6 Do you know why there would be concerns on January 7th about a statement like 
7 that? Did you hear anything about them? 
8 A I'm trying to read the sentence. Substantively, I don't. I remember 
9 conversations on the 6th about what other individuals thought he --may or may not be 
10 helpful to put out. And I remember individuals entertaining this theory and this idea 
11 that it would be a good idea for him to say something along these lines. I can't recall 
12 specifically who. Again, there was a lot of opinions floating around, but I don't know 
13 who would've put this in the speech at this moment. I know it was discussed the day 
14 before, but, again, I --my --my insight on this was limited. 
15 Q Okay. Did you ever hear why the President would want to take a message 
16 like that out? 
17 
18 A 
Q No. Not on this subject matter. 
All right. I'll have some general questions as followup, but the next 
19 paragraph, there's also lined out a clause that says, "I want to be very clear you do not 
20 represent me. You do not represent our movement." 
21 Was there concern at that point on January 7th in the White House that --about 
22 linking what happened at the Capitol with Mr. Trump's supporters? 
23 A No. I believe that any concern that was expressed was to make sure that 
24 we were relaying a message that wasn't a blanket statement that everybody involved that 
25 day was a criminal or did things that were illegal or bad.  198 
1 Mr. Passantino. Is that based on conversations or things you heard or is that you 
2 speculating? 
3 Ms. Hutchinson. I mean, Mr. Meadows had very strong opinions about how we 
4 should approach handling this from a media perspective and just not to blanket 
5 everybody as being bad or not to say that everybody was justified going into the Capitol. 
6 We were just trying to be careful with the phrasing of this because it was new and it was 
7 developing, and we didn't have the appropriate information to make a statement with 
8 knowledge and intelligence that we didn't specifically have at this point. 
9 BY MR 
10 Q So it wasn't long after --in fact, it may have been during the attack on the 
11 Capitol on the 6th --that various proposals about tweets or messages came out that 
12 involved references to antifa, for example. Have you --Jason Miller may have proposed 
13 a couple tweets that referenced antifa. 
14 Were you aware of any discussions about the need to include references to antifa 
15 when discussing the events of January 6th at the Capitol? 
16 A I was not privy to any conversations to include a word or the acronym 
17 "antifa" in any of the President's correspondence to the public after the events 
18 and --after or during the events that transpired on January 6th. 
19 Q Did Mr. Meadows ever tell you anything about his views on whether to refer 
20 to antifa as related to January the 6th? 
21 A Mr. Meadows was deliberate in his communications and his approach with 
22 how to handle this in a professional way, an appropriate way. He had discussed antifa 
23 potentially being involved. 
24 In the scope of the question you're asking, and to the best of my recollection, he 
25 didn't definitively say that he believed that the --the individuals that breached the Capitol  199 
1 were members of antifa versus MAGA supporters --or Trump supporters, I'm sorry. But 
2 he had conversations with individuals about antifa being a possible group that could've 
3 been involved. 
4 Q Who were the individuals that he talked to about those conversations 
5 related to antifa being involved? 
6 
7 A I --I can't recall specifically. 
or I'm not trying to withhold information. There was --and I'm not trying to be unhelpful 
I just --I don't want to falsely attribute 
8 anybody's name to this. 
9 It was something that he --I know he had discussions about it with Members of 
10 Congress. I know he had discussions about it with staffers internally because I was 
11 present for some of them. I just --I can't remember who would --who that would've 
12 been right now. Again, and I hope you understand, there just was a lot going on, and I 
13 just --I --it's not appropriate and --for me to falsely attribute somebody's name to that. 
14 
15 
16 Mr- Okay. I'll pause here, see if anything we've just gone over -­
Mr. - Can we take a break for 2 minutes? 
Mr.- Sure. Do you want to take a quick break? Mr. Passantino, I'll 
17 give you a call just about scheduling. 
18 
19 
20 Mr. Passantino. Okay. 
Mr- All right. Let's go off the record then. 
Mr. Passantino. So we're just taking a 2-minute break and you're --and then 
21 we'll come back? 
22 
23 
24 
25 Mr- Yeah. Just a break so I can call you. 
Mr. Passantino. Okay. Sounds good. 
Mr. - Thanks. 
[Recess.]  200 
1 Mr.- All right. We're back. Mr. Passantino and Ms. Hutchinson, we'll 
2 go back on the record very briefly. So it's 5:57, we're back on the record for the 
3 transcribed interview of Ms. Cassidy Hutchinson. 
4 I think at this point, as we discussed briefly, it makes sense to break. Appreciate 
5 your time today, Ms. Hutchinson and Mr. Passantino. 
6 We do have some additional topics to go over with you, though, and so I think in 
7 fairness to you and everybody else, it does make sense to break. And it sounds like 
8 Monday, the 7th, at noon will work. Is that correct? 
9 Mr. Passantino. Yeah, that will work for us. And I --I'd simply ask that we have 
10 an understanding that we're not going to replow old ground. Obviously, things could 
11 come up, but let's try our best to continue on as though this was just a continuation as 
12 opposed to going back and revisiting. 
13 Mr. - Absolutely. That's our every intention. So that sounds great. 
14 And then at this point, we'll plan on reconvening on Monday the 7th, at noon, and we can 
15 go off the record. 
16 Mr. Passantino. All right. Thank you. 
17 [Whereupon, at 5:59 p.m., the interview was recessed, subject to the call of the 
18 chair.]  1 
2 
3 
4 Certificate of Deponent/Interviewee 
5 I have read the foregoing __ pages, which contain the correct transcript of the 
6 answers made by me to the questions therein recorded. 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 Witness Name 
Date 201 