1 
2 
3 
4 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE 
5 JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL, 
6 U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
7 WASHINGTON, D.C. 
8 
9 
10 
11 INTERVIEW OF: VOGANANDA PITTMAN 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 Thursday, January 13, 2022 
Washington, D.C. 
The interview in the above matter was held via Webex, commencing at 1:01 p.m. 
Present: Representative Aguilar. 1  1 
2 Appearances: 
3 
4 
5 For the SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE 
6 THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL: 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 For USCP: 
17 SENIOR INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
, INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
, PROFESSIONAL STAFF 
RESEARCHER 
CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER 
18 LISA N. WALTERS 
19 TAD DIBIASE 2  3 
1 
2 This is an interview of Vogananda Pittman, conducted by the 
3 House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States 
4 Capitol, pursuant to House Resolution 503. 
5 Chief Pittman, could you please state your full name and spell all of it for the 
6 record? 
7 Chief Pittman. Vogananda Pittman. V-o-g-a-n-a-n-d-a, last name Pittman, 
8 P-i-t-t-m-a-n. 
- Good afternoon. Thank you. 9 
10 
11 
12 I'd like to ask everyone in the virtual room today --well, I'll introduce my side, 
actually, for the record. Present here, myself, I'm an investigative 
counsel for the select committee. is present and will be asking questions. 
13 He's also investigative counsel for the select committee. And I see present and 
14 potentially going to participate as well, senior investigative counsel 
15 for the select committee, and , who is a researcher for the select committee. 
16 I'll ask now --I think there's only your counsel present for the United States 
17 Capitol Police. If she, Lisa Walters, would introduce herself for the record. 
Ms. Walters. Hi. Can you hear me? 
Yes. 18 
19 
20 Ms. Walters. Lisa Walters, senior counsel with the Office of the General Counsel 
21 for the United States Capitol Police. Tad Di Biase, the general counsel, will also be 
22 joining us shortly. 
23 Thank you so much. 
24 And to add on our side as well, I see present is also , professional 
25 staff member for the select committee.  4 
1 I believe I've gotten everyone outside of administrative staff. 
2 Chief Pittman, this will be a staff-led interview, and members, of course, may 
3 choose to also ask questions if they join the call. 
4 Before we begin, I'd like to describe a few ground rules. There is an official 
5 reporter transcribing the record of this interview. Please wait until each question is 
6 completed before you begin your response. And we will try to wait until your response 
7 is complete before we ask our next question. 
8 The stenographer cannot record nonverbal responses such as shaking your head, 
9 so it is important that you answer each question with an audible, verbal response. We 
10 ask that you provide complete answers based on your best recollection. If the question 
11 is not clear, please ask for clarification. If you do not know the answer, please simply 
12 say so. And I also want to remind you that it is unlawful to deliberately provide false 
13 information to Congress. You will have also an opportunity to review the transcript 
14 once it is complete. 
15 EXAMINATION 
16 BY 
17 
18 Q 
A So I'll begin. Chief Pittman, if you can just tell us where you currently work. 
I currently work in the chief's office. My area of responsibility includes the 
19 Protective and Intelligence Operations side of the House. 
20 
21 
22 
23 Q 
A 
Q 
A And what's your current title? 
Assistant chief of police. 
What was your position back on January 6th of 2021? 
On January 6th, 2021, I was the assistant chief of police for the Protective 
24 and Intelligence Operations. 
25 Q When did you assume that title?  5 
1 A I believe that I was promoted in late 2019, somewhere between October and 
2 November of '19. 
3 Q And may you briefly describe your professional experience leading up to 
4 your appointment as assistant chief. 
5 A Absolutely. I came on to Capitol Police 2001. Started as a PFC right after 
6 9/11, the day of 9/11. From there, I worked numerous divisions throughout the 
7 department, to include the Capitol, House, and Senate division. Went through a steady 
8 stream of promotions starting in 2005 or 2006. In 2012, I was promoted to captain and 
9 
10 assigned to the Capitol division. 
Accountability I believe in 2015. From there, I went to the Office of Improvement and 
After that office, I worked for the Command and 
11 Coordination Bureau within Capitol Police. And from that position, I attained the rank of 
12 assistant chief of police for Protective and Intelligence Operations, a role that I occupy 
13 now. 
14 Q I want to talk to you about the intelligence and --leading up to January 6th. 
15 As the assistant chief of the Protective and Intelligence Operations back on January 6th 
16 and before, can you describe the role you served in relation to the Intelligence and 
17 lnteragency Coordination Division, which I will refer to going forward as IICD? 
18 A Yes. IICD is a division within the Protective Services Bureau. And under 
19 my area of responsibility, prior to January 6th, Protective Services Bureau as well as the 
20 Security Services Bureau fall --fell under my purview. And IICD is one of those divisions 
21 within the Protective Services Bureau. 
22 Q So can you briefly describe what your job description as it relates to IICD? 
23 So what sorts of things got elevated to you? What sort of things were you involved in 
24 dealing with the IICD? 
25 A Absolutely. So for IICD, when I first came over, I was in charge of the  6 
1 division itself. There were conversations about making changes to IICD in terms of the 
2 organizational structure, but I would say in a nutshell they were responsible for many of 
3 the things that they are responsible for right now, and that is to develop intelligence 
4 products. 
5 They have an open source section that does various assessments for any type of 
6 large scale events. There's daily demonstrations, as you know, on Capitol Hill. They do 
7 assessments of those events. They do assessments of events of DPD for specialized 
8 Members may be on travel and such. And so when those assessments are done, those 
9 products are completed. They essentially come up through the deputy chief that's 
10 responsible for Protective Services Bureau as well. After that person reviews that 
11 information, it is sent to me for signatures. 
12 Q Who was in the role of the deputy chief of Protective Services Bureau on 
13 January 6th and before that? 
14 
15 A 
Q That would have been Deputy Chief Sean Gallagher. 
And outside of signing certain products, how --how was your role as the 
16 assistant chief different in the day-to-day treatment of IICD than Deputy Chief Gallagher's 
17 would be? 
18 A Deputy Chief Gallagher is going to probably have a more hands-on role, so to 
19 speak. Even in the positioning of where he sits, his office is housed within those 
20 particular units that he's in charge of. So there's day-to-day communication. Sean and 
21 I are having conversations about the products, if there's any question. I review his work. 
22 If I have any questions for him, it may get sent back. But he has a more hands-on role 
23 with the director of IICD reporting directly to him. 
24 Q Only a few months before January 6th the new director and assistant 
25 director were hired for IICD. How would you characterize the reputation of IICD within  7 
1 the department and potentially more broadly before the hiring of those two new hires? 
2 A I'm not sure how to answer how I would characterize the reputation of IICD. 
3 I can --what I can say is that when I was assigned to the Protective Services Bureau, it was 
4 made clear to me by the former chief, as well as several stakeholders within the 
5 congressional community, to include the Sergeant at Arms, that change was 
6 recommended and change was necessary. 
7 Q Why? What were you told that --as to why change was necessary, and 
8 what sort of change? 
9 A I would say that the reasons why is because intelligence is a crucial and key 
10 component to the organization. These stakeholders demanded more from the 
11 intelligence operations. They were seeking information. They wanted to expand the 
12 partnerships between the department as well as their respective units that do 
13 intelligence. They were not satisfied with the performance of the previous intelligence 
14 director. 
15 Q So how did you conceive of IICD's role? And I'll give you some options that 
16 limit it to that, but did you --at the time, did you perceive it as an intelligence gathering 
17 operation, an intelligence sharing operation, merely an intelligence consuming operation, 
18 neither, all three? What was its objective? What was its aim at least before any 
19 changes were instituted to the leadership there? 
20 A I would say that it was supposed to be all three. I think that prior to those 
21 changes being implemented, there were significant improvements that needed to be 
22 made. So your intelligence unit should be gathering, consuming, and disseminating 
23 information to the workforce, to its partners. And to a large extent, they did. It just 
24 was --it needed to be more effective. 
25 There were training gaps, communication gaps. There were several gaps that  8 
1 were identified, and the department leadership wanted to go in a different direction. 
2 IICD had largely, prior to January 6th or when Jack Donohue came on, had the same 
3 director probably for 10 to 15 years. So it was time for a change, and the direction was 
4 that change was going to start at the top. 
5 Q Before the hiring --and you've mentioned Jack Donohue as director of IICD 
6 and Julie Farnam as assistant director --did IICD have a say on the operational side of the 
7 department, or have a seat at the table is more the language I think I would use? How 
8 would you characterize that? 
9 A If there are major events or planning where you're looking for your IICD to 
10 give you the intelligence that they're hearing about a specific event, yes, that information 
11 is definitely considered. 
12 Q And I'm sorry if my question was not clear. I was talking before January 
13 6th, I think because you used present tense. I meant was --how did that work before 
14 the hiring even of the two new heads of IICD in terms of whether IICD was listened to, 
15 how much of a role they had in operations, or the intelligence that they gathered in 
16 operations? How would you characterize that? 
17 A I would say that they did have a role. There was communications between 
18 the IICD director at that time and the operational assistant chief of police. 
19 Q Were there any issues of silos, of the IICD being siloed off from other 
20 sections of the department? 
21 
22 A 
Q I would say yes. 
And before I'm going to ask you to go into that, I just want to acknowledge 
23 that Congressman Pete Aguilar has joined the conversation. 
24 Good afternoon. You let me know, Congressman, of course, if you want to 
25 interject with any questions.  9 
1 So, Chief Pittman, if you could, you said yes, so can you describe that for me? 
2 What was that issue in terms of silos? 
3 A I think there were silos within the department on how information was 
4 particularly shared. One of --or there are several OIG recommendations for how IICD is 
5 operating and functioning now, but some of those things that were identified were that 
6 we needed to have specific detailed standard operating procedures and policies on how 
7 we're going to share the information between IICD and the operational components of 
8 the department, who that information was going to be reported to. For example, there 
9 were gaps in how far the information was being shared up the chain. So I think those 
10 are a couple of examples of where we've identified gaps. 
11 Q So if you could just describe, how was intelligence shared with the 
12 leadership before January 6th? 
13 A There would be communications. There were command staff meetings 
14 with Chief Gallagher. If there is a special event assessment that was to be completed, 
15 you want to know if there's going to --how many people are going to be involved, 
16 whether these groups involved civil disturbance of any sort, were there any Members 
17 going to be either targeted or participating in a particular event. There is information 
18 shared from and between our law enforcement partners within the region. Capitol 
19 Police belongs to a couple of working components. For example, the mutual council of 
20 governments. We do a law enforcement brief with law enforcement partners in the 
21 area. So those things were taking place prior to January 6th. 
22 Q In terms of you mentioned Deputy Chief Gallagher would be at some of 
23 these meetings and that would be --would he be the conduit by which intelligence would 
24 get shared with leadership? 
25 A I would say yes.  10 
1 Q I know that there were two calls, and we'll get into them, conference calls, 
2 though, with IICD's head, so Mr. Donohue and Ms. Farnam, prior to January 6th. But 
3 can you help me, were there --was there a weekly --before January 6th, a weekly or a 
4 monthly or a consistent call on which the heads of IICD were present with the leadership 
5 of Capitol Police, or did that --was that not instituted before January 6th? 
6 A Not in the manner in which it's instituted now. So there are --it's a daily 
7 call now that the IICD director hosts every day at 12 noon, and we have operational 
8 commanders as well as leadership from the department, those that have the clearances 
9 to be on the call, as well as members of the Sergeant at Arms or Capitol Police force. 
10 So they weren't happening that frequently. There were calls prior to January 
11 6th, but it's definitely been a significant improvement post-January 6th compared to what 
12 we were doing before. 
13 Q And Assistant Chief Gallagher has told us that it was two, one in December 
14 and then one on January 4th. Does that sound right to you, calls in which --
15 A On January 6th? 
16 Q Any calls in which Ms. Farnam and Mr. Donohue were both present in terms 
17 of giving a threat landscape to leadership. 
18 A I don't have the information in front of me, but I don't doubt that it would 
19 have been two calls in reference to January 6th to give a landscape picture to the 
20 department, to those commanders that were participating in that call. 
21 Q Did you approve or oversee any changes in IICD in the period after Ms. 
22 Farnam and Mr. Donahue's hiring and before January 6th? 
23 
24 A 
Q Did I approve --what --I'm sorry, repeat that. 
Sure. Were there any changes in IICD in which you had a hand in either 
25 approving or overseeing in the period between when Ms. Farnam and Mr. Donohue were  11 
1 hired on January 6th? And I know that that is a very brief period, so if there were none, 
2 there were none. I was just wondering if any of the changes that you and other 
3 members of the leadership team were seeking from IICD, whether any of those were 
4 implemented before January 6th and if you had a role in that? 
5 A I think the question is a little broad. There were numerous changes from 
6 bringing on Jack and Julie. And I would say absolutely I had a role in that. I directed 
7 that entire process. So prior to January 6th, U.S. Capitol Police did a nationwide search 
8 to bring on Jack and Julie, but that was a whole process in and of itself. 
9 There were a number of meetings with pretty much everyone in the IC 
10 community. I went to several different Federal agencies to meet with directors, share 
11 with them some of my challenges, what I was looking for, what I wanted to do here at 
12 Capitol Police. And just seek out information, if you were looking for a new director, 
13 these were your challenges, what would you suggest to me? 
14 And so after completing that process, of course, we conducted the interviews. 
15 And there was one selection that didn't quite pan out for Capitol Police. And through 
16 the course of that, instead of going with just selecting Jack, I asked the chief --the former 
17 chief at that time could we bring on an assistant director as well, because we knew there 
18 were a number of significant challenges that that new director coming on was going to 
19 have to face to start to implement change. 
20 And I don't know that I'm touching on your question, but I do feel it was a little 
21 broad, so hopefully that answers. If not, if you could give me some more specifics, I'll 
22 attempt to answer that as well. 
23 Q Sure. So I'm actually looking for specifics. And if the only change is in 
24 bringing on Mr. Donohue and Ms. Farnam, that's fine. But, you know, you said that they 
25 were brought on to bring about changes in IICD. My question is, what changes were put  12 
1 in place in IICD, if any, before January 6th? 
2 A Well, I think that there was limited time for change, but I do think there 
3 were a number of things that were requested and expectations that were set. We had 
4 staffing challenges prior to them coming on. So there was an expectation that we would 
5 bring on additional staff. There were training challenges prior to them coming on. 
6 After a review of many of the analysts' records and performance evaluations, I did have 
7 concerns about the training or lack thereof. So I wanted them to develop a training 
8 program. 
9 So all of those things that we were looking for to expand our collaboration in the 
10 intelligence community, I want to say that Jack had only probably been here maybe 60 
11 days. I'd have to go back and look at the record, but there definitely had to be a time to 
12 assess what he had. I wanted a review of the intelligence products that they were using 
13 to make sure that we were using the best things on the market, a review of our policies to 
14 make sure that our policies and procedures were kind of best practices of others in the 
15 business. 
16 But you're essentially,_ talking about a very narrow window chime. So, 
17 yes, there were expectations set forth, but as far as the implementation of those things, it 
18 wasn't just a hiring of them. It was all the things that we sat down and discussed these 
19 [inaudible] 90-day plan. In 90 days we need to come back, oh, you've had time to 
20 assess? We've looked at A, B, C, and D, and then this is going to be the roadmap to 
21 going forward. 
22 So while we identified those gaps prior to January 6th, January 6th happened. 
23 And then, of course, there's a change in plans, so to speak. And we went in a different 
24 direction as far as some, I guess, immediacy. It had to happen a lot faster. And we 
25 were under a lot of more reviews by outside entities to say these things need to happen.  13 
1 But they weren't unbeknownst to Capitol Police prior to the insurrection. 
2 Q And so, I guess, to put a finer point on it, precise as you said, my question 
3 deals with only a matter of about maybe 70 days. Were the problems leadership sought 
4 to solve by hiring new leaders within IICD still present by January 6th? And did those 
5 problems, in your opinion, result in being less prepared in the lead-up to January 6th? 
6 A I think that there were challenges prior to January 6th. I don't necessarily 
7 know that that resulted in Capitol Police being less prepared on the 6th. I think as with 
8 any organization, you're always looking to improve. And there are challenges now, but 
9 once you acknowledge those challenges, then you have to take about some type of 
10 actionable change. And that doesn't necessarily happen overnight. 
11 So I do think that they did a good job in gathering information. We were 
12 probably one of the only law enforcement agencies that produced the type of intelligence 
13 product prior to January 6th that --that detailed --I mean, we've gone over a lot of those 
14 details in our assessment. But, with that said, could there have been better 
15 communications? Absolutely. The way we distributed that information, absolutely 
16 those were challenges. And the conflicting information from the different reports. 
17 So those are all improvements that we've made since, but we own them and 
18 acknowledge that those things could have and should have been done better. 
19 Q And a lot of our conversation today will be about all the improvements that 
20 Capitol Police has made since January 6th. I'm starting off chronologically, so a lot of 
21 this is going to be backward looking. If you would, you know, humor me, bear with me a 
22 little bit since I know that there are, again, a lot of things moving forward that have been 
23 improved upon and changed. 
24 But in terms of still looking back at the period before January 6th, you mentioned 
25 sharing. So I want to ask about that. What was the level of sharing, let's start with  14 
1 outside groups, your partners, and the lead-up to January 6th? Was it at the level that 
2 you think was sufficient or was that still a problem, a challenge that IICD was working 
3 through and trying to improve when January 6th happened? 
4 A I think that that was a problem that they were still trying to improve when 
5 January 6th happened. There was limited team --regular team meetings. 
6 Expectations for the analysts were starting to be communicated, particularly by assistant 
7 director at that time, Farnam, reviewing of those individual analysts, what their training 
8 had been previously, how they were assembling those products that they were 
9 distributing to officers. A lot of the communication was via email, so --
10 And then I know you're going to ask about the changes going forward, so I'll leave 
11 that for what are we doing differently today. 
12 Q All right. I would like to talk about the threat assessment you mentioned at 
13 the January 3rd bulletin produced by IICD for January 6th. I know you've had --I'm sure 
14 you've had an opportunity to look at that final threat assessment for quite a bit, but if you 
15 have it in front of you, if you want to, you know --if I refer to anything that you want to 
16 look at, you may of course. 
17 Let me ask you generally and, again, it may be that this was sort of drafted and 
18 developed at a level below you, but what role, if any, did you play in the drafting, editing, 
19 or development of that document? 
20 A I did not play a role in the drafting of the document. We do play a role in 
21 the editing of the document. And when I say we, if it comes up and I have a question 
22 about something I'm not quite comfortable, or if I see some analysis and I'm like, well, 
23 why would we say A, B, C, or D, then there would be a conversation, and it could be sent 
24 back for additional edits or analysis. 
25 Q And I think you were describing how that might happen generally, right?  15 
1 You're saying you don't think that that happened in this case, at least as it pertains to you 
2 in terms of editing or sending anything back. Is that right? 
3 
4 
5 A 
Q 
A In terms of edit --no. No. 
And so when --yeah. I'm sorry. Go ahead. 
Let me put that in context. In terms of editing or sending anything back, 
6 no. But to say that there wasn't conversation between Chief Gallagher and I on what he 
7 saw, what he was suggesting to have my concurrence, that wouldn't be accurate. But 
8 specifically for me to say, oh, you should change this paragraph, no, I did not. 
9 Q Okay. Tell me about those conversations. What was it that you recall 
10 Deputy Chief Gallagher talking to you about, you know, what he was seeing, what he 
11 wanted to say in the assessment, and what did you respond back? 
12 A I would say that they mostly involved around the differences between MAGA 
13 1, MAGA 2. And then this being a --more of a situation where the rhetoric or feeling or 
14 sentiment that Congress was going to be the target, and folks received this as a last 
15 chance attempt to disrupt the counting of the votes. 
16 I thought I had the assessment. I don't think I need it. 
17 Q Okay. And so --and I know this was a long time ago. Can you recall 
18 maybe how --around what time it was --you know, this final assessment was published 
19 on January 3rd. What --around what time was it, what days, what period that we are 
20 talking about that Chief Gallagher comes to --assistant --Deputy Chief Gallagher comes 
21 to you and tells you about stresses, the fact that the third, January 6th, was going to be 
22 different than MAGA 1 or MAGA 2? 
23 A -I don't remember the specific days or times. I just know that we had 
24 those conversations about the assessment. But to remember specifics, I don't. 
25 Q Is it fair to say that it would have been near the time that the assessment  16 
1 was published, so --within that period? 
2 A Oh, yes. Yes, that's absolutely fair to say. And if I'm not mistaken, it 
3 wasn't sent out until maybe later in the evening. So there were conversations taking 
4 place right up into the very end --evening hours before that information was even 
5 pushed out. 
6 Q Okay. And so then --and the reason I ask is that I kind of want it know, 
7 then, before that period, let's say if the assessment comes out January 3rd, let's say we're 
8 doing this in the new year. In 2021 is when Deputy Chief Gallagher is coming to you and 
9 talking to you about these things. 
10 Did you have a sense before that or was this the first time you had heard? Was 
11 it shocking or alerting to you --alarming to you, excuse me, that, as you mentioned, this 
12 third event would be different and that potentially Congress would be the target this 
13 time? 
14 A I don't know that I remember it being shocking or alarming. There was 
15 always an undertone of violence associated with MAGA 1 and MAGA 2. But I would say 
16 that the change is that Congress was going to be who the demonstrators were feeling this 
17 sense of animosity towards versus with MAGA 1 and MAGA 2 there were numerous 
18 groups that were engaging in civil disobedience against each other. 
19 Q Were there any pieces of intelligence that you recall either being brought to 
20 your attention, either by Deputy Chief Gallagher in those conversations or in the period 
21 leading up to when the assessment is put out, that stand out to you as forming the basis 
22 for the assessment? 
23 A I don't know if it was Chief Gallagher or Jack and Julie that may have brought 
24 that to all of our attention. And I don't remember, like, it was one specific thing. 
25 There was a lot of open source kind of analysis, if you will, but a lot of emails, a lot of  17 
1 traffic that led them to conclude that Congress was going to be the target. So there was 
2 discussions about that. And I don't know that it was just from Sean and myself, but 
3 those conversations were taking place. I would say yes, and then from Jack and Julie as 
4 well. 
5 Q And so I guess I'm trying to get a feel for how much of the traffic comes 
6 across your desk, how much of it you lay eyes on, and then how much of it gets to other 
7 leadership in Capitol Police all the way up to Chief Sund. Is it synthesized and analyzed 
8 within Deputy Chief Gallagher and below so that really it's just an assessment and the 
9 product that comes across your desk? Or did you have an opportunity to see specific 
10 traffic, specific posts that paint the picture that is forming the basis for the assessment? 
11 A I would say no. We --I am not an intelligence analyst, and that takes 
12 specific training and usually years of training. There's a whole process and procedure to 
13 that. That is not my role. 
14 When they have analyzed this information from various platforms, from various 
15 entities and they have all of that together and they send a product up, that's when Chief 
16 Gallagher and myself are going to start asking questions based on the information we've 
17 received, based on the intelligence calls we're having with our partners. Sometimes we 
18 may receive calls directly from the Washington Field Office, from MPD, et cetera, saying 
19 certain things are exchanged at an executive level. 
20 But, no, to answer your question, that analysis is taking place by those persons 
21 that are trained to do so. 
22 Q So is it fair to say in the January 3rd final assessment had earlier versions in 
23 December? Is it fair to say that that product, as it is being shaped through December 
24 and then ultimately when the final one is developed on January 3rd, that is what you are 
25 relying on, in essence, for your intelligence picture into January 6th? There's no other  18 
1 either written, there are no emails of specific intelligence that are sent to you at your 
2 level. It really is the assessment that you are using for January 6th. Is that fair? 
3 A I think that's fair. I think that if there are additional conversations between 
4 the director and the analyst, the director may have a conversation with --if it was 
5 something that was jarring or jumping out at them. But overall, they're using that 
6 information to develop that assessment. 
7 So, no, we're not getting those individual emails. I'm not scanning open source 
8 to see what groups are saying on Gab or 4Chan or what have you. I'm depending on my 
9 analysts to look at that, come up with a product. They're verbalizing their concerns and 
10 so forth. And then there is some oversight over them, and then we push that product 
11 out to the masses. 
12 Q And that is true of not just you, but then other parts of Capitol leadership, I 
13 would assume. They are also not reading --being sent or reading through any sort of 
14 specific lines, specific posts. They are also relying on sort of that threat assessment to 
15 make operational decisions. Is that fair? 
16 
17 A 
Q I think that's fair. 
Can you tell us the reason that the threat assessment for January 6th was 
18 final by January 3rd and not continually updated as more intelligence came in on the 4th, 
19 5th, and the morning of the 6th? 
20 A I think there were some silos and gaps that we have identified, as we've 
21 discussed. There was information that came in that did not make it to the director of 
22 IICD. But I also think that some of that information --if there were conversations about 
23 that, it was largely based on information that we already were aware of. A, there was 
24 going to be violence. B, we expected people to be armed. There were going to be 
25 hundreds of folks in town. We're looking at all of the hotels, camp sites, et cetera. So  19 
1 a lot of the information that was received was consistent with what the information was 
2 already provided in the assessment. 
3 Q And so I just want to make it clear, because --are you saying, then, 
4 the --because my question was what was the reason, what was the rationale. Is the 
5 rationale that anything that came in after January 3rd was consistent with what had been 
6 produced in terms of the assessment and that is why no update was generated between 
7 then and January 6th? 
8 A No, that's not what I'm saying. What I initially said was there were silos 
9 and gaps. So we know that there was information that came in, for example, to our task 
10 force officers that was not distributed up the chain, so the assistant director or a director 
11 didn't even have that information. But even after, you know, hindsight being 20/20, 
12 looking back at it, the information was consistent with the information that we already 
13 had. And then I named a couple of those variables, such as violence, individuals being 
14 armed, et cetera. 
15 So I would say that there were gaps that we didn't have information. But looking 
16 back, that information was still consistent with what was in the assessment. 
17 Q Okay. And so then I guess you can't tell me the reasoning why the threat 
18 assessment at the time, what the thinking at the time was for having the final one be on 
19 January 3rd and not updated? 
20 A I think --1 don't know any other way to answer your question,., other 
21 than I do think that they didn't have the information in some instances. So there 
22 wouldn't have been a reason there. If I don't have a document to add to it, I don't have 
23 anything to update it with. And looking back, we identified within some of those 
24 documents that it was consistent with the information that we had. 
25 Q Okay.  20 
1 Mr. DiBiase. -this is Tad. Can I just follow up on that question? I think 
2 something that may help. 
3 
4 Chief Pittman. Okay. 
Mr. Di Biase. What was our practice with putting out these types of assessments 
5 in the past in terms of when we issued them? 
6 Chief Pittman. So I don't have off the top of my head, like, do we have a specific 
7 date it has to be out 2 days prior or 3 days prior. If we get something significant that 
8 comes in, we're absolutely going to push out a revised assessment. So I don't know if 
9 that helps or not. 
10 
11 
12 - I'm satisfied. I think I'll have a way of asking it as we move on. 
BY 
Q So you mentioned, you know, what Deputy Chief Gallagher highlighted to 
13 you, which is what the overall analysis is as part of the threat assessment on January 3rd. 
14 For the record, I'll read it, a concluded quote: "This sense of desperation and 
15 disappointment may lead to more of an incentive to become violent. Unlike previous 
16 post-election protests, the targets of the pro-Trump supporters are not necessarily the 
17 counter-protesters as they were previously, but rather Congress itself is the target on the 
18 6th," end of the quote. 
19 Do you think that warning, particularly that Congress itself was the target and not 
20 counter-protesters like the previous two MAGA marches, do you think that warning was 
21 properly heeded by leadership at Capitol Police? 
22 A I think that warning was listened to. I think there were operational 
23 changes that were made, but it's hard to say properly heeded to when you have a January 
24 6th. So if the tables were turned and we could go back, would there have been more 
25 done if you knew that that was going to happen? Of course you're going to do more.  21 
1 But I think that at that particular time, the plus up of the CDU, civil disturbance 
2 units, the changes to the security posture, the changes that were made within Dignitary 
3 Protection, the deployment of with the exception of a few things here and there, 
4 essentially everything the department had, it wasn't enough. And there were some asks 
5 made after the fact. But, you know, knowing what we know now, it just wasn't enough. 
6 Q I'd like you to run through those operational changes that were specifically 
7 made, in your mind, in response to this warning from the IICD. So --and you ran 
8 through some of them. So if you could in detail, what changed, what was operationally 
9 changed because of this warning? 
10 A So I don't have all of the lists right in here in front of me, but I can tell you 
11 that the times of the civil disturbance units were altered. The number of civil 
12 disturbance units, I believe we went from four platoons to seven. The number of 
13 officers assigned to patrol the grounds as well as the buildings, the number of special 
14 operations divisions officers that were deployed, whether it is patrol mobile response, the 
15 guys that drive around the grounds, our K-9 officers, having additional HDU, hazardous 
16 device units, that would deploy to investigate any type of bomb threats. 
17 On the PSB side, plussing up all of our dignitary protection teams. I believe we 
18 went from four-man teams to six. We added additional supervisors, giving them 
19 additional weaponry, long guns. We had our countersurveillance units deployed from 
20 an operational period I believe up to 2 days before. Gosh, without having the total 
21 listing in front of me, that was assessed. 
22 Chief Sund and Chief Thomas did an assessment of the grounds as far as the 
23 deployment of the bike rack on January 5th. They asked that that be redeployed, they 
24 thought, to give them a better tactical advantage over the demonstrators. There was a 
25 call on January 5th where all of those concerns were expressed from Chief Sund. He  22 
1 was the host of the call, if I'm not mistaken. And there was probably every law 
2 enforcement agency within the National Capital Region participating on those calls, to 
3 include all of the Federal agencies, as well as the State and locals, and the D.C. National 
4 Guard. 
5 So on those calls it was --the call was designated for the inauguration planning, 
6 but before they went into that, they went into January 6th. And that's when Chief Sund 
7 also requested additional resources on that particular call from Metropolitan Police 
8 Department as well as the D.C. National Guard. 
9 Q And so let's unpack that a little bit. Staying within Capitol Police and what 
10 its resources, it sounds a lot of what you mentioned is plussing of resources, right, of 
11 manpower in certain divisions and areas. So I want to actually compare that to --
12 First, I want to make clear on the record, is it your testimony then that those 
13 pluses were not --went into effect after the threat assessment? That is to say that the 
14 levels they were at before the pluses would have been before and then the levels 
15 afterwards is in response to the warnings by IICD. 
16 
17 A 
Q Yes. 
Okay. And then the other end of it that I want to ask about is, on the 
18 morning of January 6th, before obviously there was any breach, before even members, 
19 people who are listening on The Ellipse even marched over to the Capitol, was the United 
20 States Capitol Police at full deployment at that morning or not? 
21 A Were we at full deployment? 
22 
23 
24 Q 
A 
Q Right. 
Yeah. I'm not sure what you mean by full deployment. 
Sure. I mean --and, you know, I need you to sort of help me in terms of 
25 what the language might be, but was every single member of the police force working  23 
1 that day? 
2 A So to answer your question, no. We planned for an operational period that 
3 was going from approximately 6 a.m. on January 6th through the morning of --or through 
4 the day of January 7th. So, naturally, you can't have officers here working 24-hour 
5 periods. So you stagger. We use what we call a staggering approach. 
6 And I believe when the question was asked before for peak hours when we expect 
7 the groups to arrive on the campus and to cover that operational period that we think 
8 Congress is going to be in to count those electoral votes. We had 1,200 of the --maybe 
9 it was 1,600 or --I'd have to go back through the numbers --of those 1,500, 1,600 officers 
10 available to us during that peak period. You save a certain reserve of those officers to 
11 come in and supplement those officers that have been here 12, 15 hours. 
12 And for us, us as a department, typically we would do not work officers past a 
13 16-hour period. So we try to stagger the group so that we are able to have full coverage 
14 throughout the night pulling from the 6th into the 7th. 
15 Q And so, can you tell me, if you know, if you can ballpark for me, before the 
16 resources were plussed, what percentage of the force was that plan put in place for 
17 January 6th? What percentage of the force would be working on the morning of 
18 January 6th, and then what percentage did it shift to once you made all the pluses and 
19 planning? 
20 A I cannot put that into numbers. One of the most significant ones was the 
21 plus up of the CDU. If we went from four platoons to seven, a platoon for us is 40 
22 persons. And some of that, I believe we ended with 276 CDU hard platoon officers. 
23 And what I mean by hard is they have specialized gear that was on the campus that day. 
24 But to break it down in terms of how many we actually had that were strictly soft 
25 and hard to go to the plus up, I don't have it broken down in front of me or in my mind  24 
1 that way. 
2 Q And taking into account your answer about keeping some for reserves, right, 
3 for --for the second sort of shift, I take it that from four to seven, seven is not the 
4 maximum number of CDU platoons, that there are others that were reserved for that 
5 potential second shift. Is that right? 
6 A No. I would not say that that was necessarily accurate. Because in 
7 addition to CDU, Congress is in full session. And for Capitol Police, that means we're 
8 staffing all our garage posts, all our entry door posts throughout the campus. So CDU is 
9 just one component that would be dealing with, you know, the demonstrators. But 
10 we're also screening staff. We're making sure that the Members can go to and from. 
11 So there's a routine operations that Capitol Police is conducting at the same time 
12 while they're dealing with any mass type of demonstration. 
13 Q So I think my question is, is seven CDU platoons the maximum? Is that full 
14 deployment for CDU? 
15 A I believe so, but I will have to double-check. 
16 Q So I want to go back to the threat assessment, that sort of, you know, overall 
17 analysis. That warning came on effectively the last substantive page of the threat 
18 assessment, page 13 of 15, where the last two pages were largely footnote citations. 
19 So my question to you is: In hindsight, do you think that had an effect either on 
20 the ability for leadership or maybe the full department even rank and file, whomever, 
21 could that have affected people not reaching that last paragraph, that being the most 
22 critical piece of the threat assessment? 
23 A I think that in hindsight --well, not even in hindsight. It's probably a matter 
24 of opinion. And you tell me if I'm wrong. It sounds like you're asking should that have 
25 been on the first page, or should it have been put in red, or should it have been  25 
1 put --that's just one entity of the assessment. You're also depending on those 
2 conversations that you're having with your staff. 
3 So, yes, you have this on paper, but I need to be talking to my leadership team to 
4 say, this is the concern. When I'm giving it to my operational commander, I'm 
5 depending on my operational commander to have a meeting, so to speak, with his 
6 deputies, that that gets pushed down to the rank and file. 
7 So whether or not it's placement within the paper, to me, is only one aspect of 
8 how you're communicating or what medium you're using to distribute any type of 
9 messaging. It has to be a holistic approach. It can't be just where you put it in the 
10 assessment. It has to be that communication. 
11 And I think when PSB hosted --or not PSB --IICD hosted a call briefing to those 
12 operational commanders, and they're going over that assessment, they're not only 
13 distributing it via email so that someone has a paper they can hold in their hand and read, 
14 but I'm telling you, on a call, whether it's Webex or you're dialing in, what have you, I'm 
15 telling you that these are the concerns, and I'm providing you an opportunity to have any 
16 questions. I'm addressing those questions. So that personal touch or discussion is a 
17 component of that --an important component of that as well. 
18 Q So then, for example, on the second page of the assessment --and I'll read it 
19 to you for the record, the quote. It says: "The protests/rallies are expected to be 
20 similar to the previous Million MAGA March rallies in November and December 2020, 
21 which drew tens of thousands of participants," end of quote. 
22 What do you think about how --you know, you've told me that a big thing that 
23 Deputy Chief Gallagher was highlighting was that January 6th was going to be 
24 substantively different than the first two Million MAGA Marches. And that is in the 
25 overall analysis, on the third to last page, that this was going to be different than those  26 
1 previous two marches. But that assessment, that paragraph on the second page reads 
2 somewhat differently, right? It says it's expected to be similar to the previous marches. 
3 
4 
5 So what do you --
A -I don't see what you're referencing. 
Q No problem. Let met get it for you. My apologies. I know it's difficult 
6 because we're not in the same room. 
7 But if you look at the second page of the assessment --you have it in front of you? 
8 
9 
10 
11 A 
Q 
A 
Q Yes. 
And under expected protests overview, the second sentence. 
Okay. I'm with you. 
Okay, cool. And then, you know, obviously the overall analysis you've seen 
12 before, that's on 13 of the 15, in which it says that this event is unlike the events on 
13 November 14, 2020, and December 12, 2020, which are of course the Million MAGA 
14 March rallies in November and December. 
15 So, you know, I guess, can you explain to me whether that is problematic, could be 
16 confusing, particularly when one indication that there are similarities more --it's earlier in 
17 the document versus the heart of it, the part that IICD wanted leadership to take away at 
18 the end? 
19 A I think that it could. And I think that's where that in-person or command 
20 brief comes in. If I'm saying it similar in terms of the numbers that are coming but not 
21 similar in terms of those numbers directing the violence toward each other or opposing 
22 groups, counter-demonstrations, counter-demonstrators. But then I'm ending that 
23 conversation with, you all should know that this --what we are expecting now is that 
24 they've had it out with each other, this is the last and final stop. 
25 So I think that's why I said it's a holistic approach. But I don't deny that it should  27 
1 be crystal clear so that there are no discrepancies. And those are the things that we 
2 worked hard to change and clean up, so to speak, so that there's no --so if somebody had 
3 to come back a year from now and read it, you're going have the same perception as 
4 when we put that information out, and we're not going to --we won't have to depend on, 
5 oh, but I had these conversations with them and I told them. Because we see now I'm 
6 having this conversation with you what that can result in.  28 
1 
2 [2:00 p.m.] 
3 BY 
4 Q And maybe you can help me also in terms of where maybe the breakdown of 
5 conversation happened with this --my last example with this is, I sent over the CDU 
6 Operational Plan, published on January 5th, 2021. So it was put together, obviously, 
7 after the threat assessment was finalized, and after that the January 4th conference call 
8 that I will ask you a little bit about in which, you know, it is being verbally expressed 
9 despite, you know, where it is placed in the text. Your point being, of course, those 
10 conversations were had and Ms. Farnam and Mr. Donahue are speaking at that 
11 conference call about the concerns that they had. 
12 So if you turn to the CDU Operational Plan on the first page, and it says, the 
13 expected protests overview. It is in essence lifted. It's lifted basically, word for word, 
14 from that second paragraph we read in the assessment. 
15 
16 A 
Q Can you tell me where? 
I'll just read it, but it's exact same sentence. The protest's/rallies are 
17 expected to be similar to the previous Million MAGA March rallies in November and 
18 December 2020, which drew tens of thousands of participants. 
19 So what, ultimately, gets put in the CDU plan is that first indication of similarity 
20 between the protests. And nowhere --nothing else is lifted from the threat assessment. 
21 So not that final paragraph that actually says, as you've said slightly different, that the 
22 January 6th is going to be different in kind and degree than the two previous MAGA 
23 Million March rallies. 
24 So my question is for you is where, if you know, where did that breakdown 
25 occur --at least how it got translated to the leaders over at CDU where the important  29 
1 part of the threat assessment is not what gets copied and pasted into their plan, but it's 
2 that earlier version that makes it seem as though January 6th is going to be just the third 
3 of the two previous MAGA marches? 
4 A Thank you. Ask me the question again, Robin, just so I am clear. 
5 Q Sure. It was long, so I understand. To make it more brief, why do you 
6 think --what do you think it led to the incorrect or the less salient, the not the important 
7 part of the threat assessment being reproduced in the CDU Operational Plan, given that 
8 you mentioned that there were conversations that there is this conference call, what do 
9 you think was the breakdown in communication? If you do --and of course, if you 
10 disagree with the premise, let me know --as to why, what was the meat of what was 
11 supposed to be taken by the threat assessment doesn't make it into the CDU operational 
12 plan? 
13 A I would have to say that there were silos. And I --operation CDU 
14 Operational Plan did not fall under our area of responsibility. Were those --that this 
15 does fall within their purview given the information, yes, they were. I would say I don't 
16 know. I don't have an explanation for why they didn't put it in or why that wasn't 
17 caught at some point. For that, I can't say, and look --going back to the 5th and what 
18 was happening, there are definitely things that stand out, but the details of --for lack of a 
19 better term, for someone else's operational plan and why they did or did not put that in 
20 there, it would be hard for me to speak on their behalf to say, we had these 
21 conversations, why did that information did not transfer to this document? I don't 
22 know. 
23 Q And one way, I guess, I can ask is did you or did Deputy Chief Gallagher or 
24 did Ms. Farnam or Mr. Donahue, the way it was set up previously --and this may go to 
25 what you were saying about silos --did you guys have an opportunity to have a say, to  30 
1 read, to edit this CDU Operational Plan; to look at it and say, oh, you know, that was the 
2 wrong thing to take from the threat assessment; I'm sorry, this should be the right thing? 
3 Was that put in place, you know, before January 6th, or was that opportunity not 
4 there for you folks who know what the most sort of important parts of the intelligence 
5 are to affect what gets written in those plans? 
6 A That communication was not there. So whereas we have IAP, we do now. 
7 We have a specific bureau that is funneling all of that information. I will say there is 
8 probably in the past, there was verbal communication between the executives that say 
9 this is what's important. But if that was someone's oversight for the CDU Operational 
10 Plan, like you're saying the meat of that assessment, what was most important, why that 
11 wasn't within the operational plan, and I don't know. Maybe Tad has it. I'm not sure 
12 who all received the operational plan. 
13 So as I was stating before, this is just one form of communication. But if I am 
14 having a command staff brief, and I have my IICD director on there giving the meat of our 
15 assessment to them, regardless of what is in the operational plan, if I verbalize to them 
16 that this is what we think is going to happen, we still expect that information to be 
17 pushed out at the roll calls when they're getting together the masses that this is what we 
18 expect. 
19 So I think to look at it individually, yes. And I agree with the assessment or the 
20 folks that have evaluated us and made recommendations that we should streamline 
21 things and make it so it's crystal clear, whether you are reading it today or a year from 
22 now how this information was gathered, how it was distributed, et cetera. But I do 
23 think it's still only one medium that that communication is taking place. 
24 Q Okay. So you brought up distribution. Now, I want to talk --this is I think 
25 my last question --about the threat assessment itself. I want to talk about how it got  31 
1 distributed. So the hardcopy got distributed in terms of leadership of Capitol Police, 
2 where? 
3 A I know it was distributed to the command staff, but I would have to go back 
4 and pull that particular email or document to see exactly where it went. I believe it was 
5 command staff --operational commanders, let me clarify. Operational 
6 commanders --folks that would have been on the campus and having some role in the 
7 event on that day as well as to some stakeholders, which I believe included the Capitol 
8 Police Board, House and Senate Sergeant At Arms, as well as the Architect. 
9 Q Okay. And what about to the rank and file? What is your understanding 
10 of how it got distributed, if at all, to them? 
11 A It's my understanding, now, that they did not receive a copy of the 
12 assessment. The way Capitol Police had operated in the past is that information would 
13 be shared with those commanders. Those commanders would post a roll call where 
14 they're sharing that information to the rank and file. But it is our clear understanding 
15 after the fact that that did not happen on January 6th. 
16 Q Let's talk about --well, let me make sure --well actually, no. Let's talk 
17 about a conference call, the conference call briefing on January 4th with Ms. Farnam and 
18 Mr. Donahue highlighting, you know, what they put together in that January 3rd 
19 assessment. Do you recall who spoke at the briefing? 
20 A I believe both Jack and Julie spoke at the briefing. I believe that Chief 
21 Gallagher? I wouldn't want to be a hundred percent because I don't remember all the 
22 specifics. I know that normally when we host a call, Sean is kicking it off, whether he 
23 gave any detail --the specifics of who gave what, I'm not sure. But that's generally 
24 speaking how we do those calls. 
25 Q And you were present. Is that right?  1 
2 A 
Q Yes. 
Do you know who was invited to attend and who was actually present, if 
3 those two are different? 
4 A I believe all operational commanders. So that would have been our 
5 inspectors and above. And then in some elements like, for example, our hazardous 32 
6 device section or unit is led by a captain. So there may be onesies, twosies for captains 
7 here and there because we don't have an inspector. But anybody that is operationally 
8 in charge of a unit would have been invited. I don't remember right off the top of my 
9 head who didn't participate on the call, but I do believe that most of them did. 
10 Q Okay. And I know this isn't a video conference, so is the way that you 
11 would have known whether someone attended or not is if their sort of name comes up? 
12 A We have an executive officer kind of in an administrative role that would 
13 have been hosting it. That person keeps or is able to --almost like the call we're doing 
14 now, you can see the participants and maybe identify them either by name or number. 
15 And I'm sure that that's what happened in that instance. We would have known from 
16 the person that was hosting the call who called in and who didn't. 
17 Q You are saying, basically, operational inspectors and above, maybe a couple 
18 of captains on the bottom end. Can you tell me from the top down who you know was 
19 present? 
20 A No, not off the top of my head. I don't remember everybody that was on 
21 that call. I believe Chief Sund myself, Chief Thomas, Deputy Chief Waldow, Deputy Chief 
22 Bowen. Gosh, I'm trying to think of who else. I can't remember exactly how many 
23 deputies we had at that time that would have been on there. I feel like I'm missing 
24 somebody. Of course, Deputy Chief Gallagher, who was then deputy chief at the time. 
25 So maybe that's all of them. As far as the inspectors, it's quite a few of them. And I  33 
1 don't remember who all was on. But I do think that, for the most part, they 
2 participated. 
3 Q All right. And so all those names you listed, starting with Chief Sund, those 
4 were names of people you believe were on the call, correct? 
5 
6 A 
Q Yes. That is correct. 
Okay. Perfect. After Ms. Farnam and/or Mr. Donahue finished their 
7 presentation, do you recall if anyone asked them any questions at the end of the 
8 presentation of them? 
9 A No. Now, Ms. Harper may have remembered what I ate yesterday. The 
10 days run together. I certainly don't remember what questions they would have asked a 
11 year ago, you know. 
12 Q No problem at all. And so whether they asked a question or not, you don't 
13 know? You don't recall either way? 
14 A No. 
15 Q Okay. And I actually kind of want to make a distinction about when, you 
16 know, the operational changes were made. Was it your understanding that it was after 
17 this phone call, which was January 4th or earlier, or was it the highlighting of the threat 
18 assessment? Was it the threat assessment itself or the highlighting of the threat 
19 assessment, if you know, that changed the security posture for Capitol Police? 
20 A I believe that there were different changes at different times. So as 
21 information was incoming. Based on the information we're receiving, it was changing. 
22 So whether it was the 3rd, 4th, each day right up to the 5th --I do remember on the 5th 
23 riding with Chief Sund and Chief Thomas around the perimeter of the campus, so to 
24 speak. And Chief Sund was not --he was not satisfied with the placement of some of 
25 the bike racks, and it could have been snow fencing.  34 
1 But there were certain physical barriers that were placed around the campus that 
2 he and Chief Thomas discussed having them adjusted. And that was the day before. 
3 do remember that. But there were other changes as information was coming in that 
4 folks were making. 
5 Q Can you tell me about that sort of movement of the bike racks? What 
6 information was it that led to that change? 
7 A As we traversed the perimeter, Chief Sund was concerned with the amount 
8 of traffic. We were expecting that whatever way that bike rack was laid out at the 
9 time --and I don't remember the particulars --there weren't proper egress routes. 
10 There weren't proper --it wouldn't be proper ways to tactically defend the campus. I do 
11 remember there was an exchange between Chief Sund and Chief Thomas on how far the 
12 bike racks should be placed out, closing of the plaza versus not closing the plaza. And I 
13 believe some of this discussion was guided by the Sergeant at Arms at the time. 
14 And there were disagreements or a back-and-forth exchange. But I don't 
15 remember all of the particulars of what information and criteria they were using. But it 
16 definitely was discussed as we get towards the ground. 
17 Q Oh, okay. So what I am asking in essence is, I believe I heard you say, or 
18 you brought up this example when I am asking about how intelligence drove a change in 
19 operations. So I was wondering what piece of intelligence, what new information was it 
20 that made Chief Sund feel as though the bike racks needed to be moved? 
21 A So if you have intelligence that is saying that thousands of people are going 
22 to be traversing Constitution Avenue, and you see that you have the bike racks that could 
23 essentially set up traps for your officers, and/or for the pedestrians, if you have 
24 intelligence that says that --and I'm just going to just kind of do some hypothetical. 
25 Antifa is going to be traversing this route versus Black Lives Matter is going to be  35 
1 coming down First Street, I want to make sure that I have a tactical positioning to keep 
2 these groups separate. If I needed to encircle them or keep them closed off from one or 
3 the other, I'm going to make changes to my security posture. If I have intelligence that 
4 says that individuals may be trying to enter the buildings through the tunnels, or they're 
5 trying to come underground, there may be a tactical decision to plus-up the number of 
6 officers and supervisors that were posted at the Cannon tunnel or Rayburn tunnel, et 
7 cetera, so that you have additional resources there to handle anything that may come 
8 your way. 
9 Q I am going to guess in terms of the placement of the bike racks on 
10 January 5th, was there any new intelligence, or was there something new that came out 
11 that drove that operational change? I think you mentioned --you mentioned in the 
12 hypotheticals, but I am trying to pin down what actually you heard, or you received in 
13 terms of intelligence that led to that change. You mentioned numbers. I think 
14 thousands of people and potentially the movement over from the Ellipse. Was that new 
15 information? Or was that information that you guys had had long before the shift in 
16 bike racks on January 5th? 
17 A I would say some of the information was new, but some of it was from a 
18 tactical perspective, Chief Sund was not --he didn't like the setup. And then there was 
19 the Sergeant at Arms that weighed in on tactically positioning. If you have these groups 
20 coming, and they may be aggressive or violent, where should that bike rack be placed out 
21 to; how much ground should we be defending; what are we willing to give up? So I do 
22 think that those are, from an intelligence perspective, you're using that information 
23 provided by intel. 
24 If I know a certain number of people are going to be armed, I'm going to move 
25 things, strategically, even where the placement of my teams, whether it's my CDU  36 
1 response teams, the placement of the bunches, and things of that nature. So those 
2 things were --those conversations were had. All of the particulars of the operational 
3 tactical changes I wasn't necessarily a part of, but I do know that those conversations 
4 were taking place. 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 Q 
to ask i 
Q I want to go into some individual intelligence received by IICD. First, I want 
has anything that she wanted to ask about at this point. 
I am sorry. Can you hear me? 
Yes. 
Okay. 
Just one quick question about the Sergeant of Arms --Hi, Chief Pittman. 
12 How are you? 
13 
14 A 
Q Hi. How are you? 
--what his role was or any conversations during the time period of preparing 
15 for January 6th? I know you just mentioned him. So I am wondering what the 
16 communication was with the Sergeant at Arms. 
17 
18 
19 A 
Q I'm sorry, - And how do I pronounce your last name? 
It's- thanks for asking. 
A - It looks so much like mine. It's like, I feel like I should know. 
20 But I believe your question was to what extent was the Sergeant at Arms playing a role in 
21 the security posture? 
22 
23 Q 
A Correct. 
The true honest answer is I don't know to what extent Chief Sund accepted 
24 their recommendations. I do know that they had concerns, particularly, with the plaza. 
25 Naturally, the Members are going to be coming back and forth. I do know that there  1 were conversation and kind of going back to-'s question between the Sergeant at 
2 Arms and Capitol Police about encouraging Members to stay underground so that they 
3 wouldn't be interacting with the protesters on game day. 
4 But the specifics of those conversations and how much he may have adhered to 
5 their advice or if it was a collaborative effort, I wasn't privy to that. 
6 
7 Mr.? 
8 
9 
10 
11 Q 
A 
Q 
Q So those conversations would have been from Chief Sund to Mr. Irving and 
Stenger. 
Stenger. Okay. Thank you. 
So Chief Pittman, I want to draw your attention to an email that was 37 
12 forwarded to John Donahue, the director of IICD by an NYPD official on December 28th of 
13 2020. The email notes, quote, assume you have. And it is sort of a listing of social 
14 media posts. That site put together in the run-up to January 6th. 
15 I'll just read some of them for you. I know I think you're trying to find it. So 
16 while you do that --well, you tell me if you want me to wait until you find it. 
17 
18 
19 
20 A 
Q 
A 
Q You can start reading it. 
Yeah, because it's -
Okay. 
No problem. It's in paragraph form. But, in essence, a lot of the postings 
21 say this. It's protesters should, quote, start marching into the Chambers. Quote, show 
22 up with guns and threaten them with death. They indicate that Trump's tweet, The Wild 
23 Protests, the one user said, quote, I read that as armed. Another said that violent 
24 insurrection has, quote, always been the plan. Another one says, quote, Trump can't 
25 openly tell you to revolt. This is closest he'll ever get.  38 
1 Another says, quote, there is not enough cops in D.C. to stop what is coming. 
2 Another says, quote, this is war, and we're clearly in a post-legal phase of our society. 
3 Another quote, be there on the 6th ready for 1776. Another, quote, fun fact, no 
4 revolution has ever been won without violence. And quote, kill the opposition. 
5 I was wondering if these sort of postings, if you recall seeing stuff like this before 
6 January 6th? 
7 
8 A 
Q I don't. I don't recall. 
Okay. And do you think --and, again, this may be speculation, but do you 
9 think other members of Capitol Police or the operational side of the department saw 
10 specific intelligence like this, specific lines, the specific line of rhetoric? 
11 A If they would have seen these emails or just the general chatter? Do I 
12 know if they saw that? 
13 Q Yeah. In specifics. So having read things like this themselves, these sort 
14 of specific rhetoric being brought to their attention. 
15 
16 A 
Q I don't know that to be true. 
Okay. And so take something like, you know, indications of marching into 
17 the Chamber, do you think that that sort of --those sort of specifics --well, do you know 
18 why they weren't included in the January 3rd assessment? Let me ask it that way. 
19 
20 A 
Q No. No. 
Okay. And you tell me if this is wrong, but do you think that it would be 
21 helpful? Obviously, a threat assessment puts things together. There is general sort of 
22 conclusions and thoughts and a threat landscape that gets put out there. But do you 
23 think it would be helpful, that would have been helpful for leadership and maybe even 
24 the rank and file to be able to see what is forming the basis of the warning; to sees the 
25 actual language that is being used such as marching into the Chambers, the other things  39 
1 that I indicated? Do you think that that would have been helpful? 
2 A I think that's a tough question. You don't want to say that any information 
3 would not be helpful first and foremost. However, with that said, you do have 
4 conversations with your executive team, your executive staff to say, how am I going to 
5 mitigate any type of threat? What threat is most likely to happen on this campus? 
6 So if I have a threat that suggests individuals want to march into a chamber, okay, 
7 how can I mitigate that? I have got CDU, Civil Disturbance Units. I've got hundreds of 
8 officers deployed. They have got less lethal munitions, or they've been trained to 
9 tactically defend the Capitol building. I have also put out calls to local law enforcement 
10 to say, I can probably get 500 more of these same level of trained officers to defend that 
11 type of threat. 
12 So to say that that one specific, I think it's more looked at in terms of holistically, 
13 what am I going to do to mitigate if there's a suspicious package on the campus? Okay. 
14 I've got my hazardous response units deployed on the north side and south side. What 
15 am I going to do if there is an active shooter? So you train for these scenarios. I have 
16 got counter snipers strategically positioned around the campus. 
17 So do I isolate one or a hundred emails? No, I'm looking for that analyst. 
18 They're sifting through thousands of pieces of information. And so I need them to come 
19 up with that holistic picture. And then I am going to deploy resources that can handle or 
20 mitigate multiple types of scenarios. And I'm going to have conversations with my 
21 operational staff that say, hey, if (A) happens, this is what we're doing to do. And those 
22 were gaps that were identified that those conversations should have definitely have been 
23 more robust. And whenever we get into changes that have been made, those are things 
24 that I think we have addressed going forward. 
25 Q So let me ask about what, you know, those conversations, in particular, was  40 
1 the scenario of storming into the Capitol, occupying the Capitol, was that hypothetical, or 
2 was that contingency discussed? 
3 A No, not in the manner of thousands of people storming or breaching the 
4 building, flanking it on both sides at the same time. That particular scenario was not 
5 discussed. 
6 Q And so you put a caveat in, not to that extent. So my question is, was the 
7 scenario of anybody storming the Capitol in any amount of numbers discussed? 
8 
9 A 
Q To me it's the same question, and the answer is no. 
Okay. Let me ask you about --there is an email sent to you on January 5th, 
10 2021. I think you're familiar with it, at 4:10 p.m. That Washingtontunnels.com had 
11 been receiving dramatic upticks in new visits. This was sent to you by Deputy Chief 
12 Gallagher. That the site, the Donald.win had been active in promoting photos of the 
13 tunnel system. And that Capitol Police had identified numerous open source comments 
14 by groups of their intention of finding tunnel entrances and in confronting or blocking the 
15 Members of Congress, including setting up a perimeter to block entry or escape. 
16 And in that thread, once deputy chief sort of alerts you to this uptick in views with 
17 the tunnels, that same day, January 5th, at 4:55 p.m. you forward that piece of 
18 intelligence to Chief Sund, saying that you should hold a call regarding that intelligence. 
19 Were you aware of that particular intelligence, the uptick in visits to the tunnels 
20 prior to that email that you forwarded to Chief Sund on January 5th? 
21 A Yes. There had been previous conversations about individuals having 
22 information about the tunnels. And, Robin, I don't have the email in front of me. I'm 
23 very familiar with it. Does it also include Chief Thomas on it, too? Because I don't 
24 think it was just Chief Sund. 
25 Q For sure. Let me get you that. It is --and I did send -- 1 
2 
3 A 
Q 
A You did. 
Okay. No worries. I just wanted to make sure. 
I have a printout of materials in front of me. I do remember, and it's not 
4 the first time that I have been asked about this particular email. So I'm familiar with 
5 what you're talking about, but I wasn't certain that it didn't go to just Chief Sund. 
6 
7 Q 
A No. You're right. 
Okay. I make that distinction because you want to really have that 
8 conversation with the operational side of the House as well. And I apologize, but I had 
9 forgotten your original question. 41 
10 
11 Q No worries. 
sends it just to you at 4:10. Just to answer your question, yes, the Deputy Chief Gallagher 
You forward it at 4:55 to Chief Sund as well as Chad Thomas 
12 and as well as counsel, Tad. 
13 
14 A 
Q Okay. 
So I'm sorry, my original --so my question to you, but my first question --I 
15 think you answered it though --was whether you had that information that intelligence 
16 prior to January 5th. And I think you said yes. Right? 
17 A Yeah, I believe --excuse me. There were conversations about individuals 
18 having --being aware that these tunnels existed. I believe there was chatter, excuse 
19 me, about some of the demonstrators saying things like the Members were going to try 
20 to hide and not come out --traverse the plaza to go vote. They were going to try to use 
21 these tunnels. 
22 I also remember that, I believe, it was Assistant Director Farnam, when they did 
23 their homework and research on that, that information had been posted on the internet, 
24 I believe, for at least the last 5 years. So with all that being said, that's when the Capitol 
25 Police did make the determination to what we call plus-up the manpower at the tunnels.  42 
1 And it was also taken into consideration that the buildings were closed on the campus at 
2 the time due to COVID. So it's nothing the public would have access to getting down to 
3 the tunnels anyway. 
4 Q And so you said that the intelligence had previously been sort of discussed. 
5 Why then are you --why is it being forwarded to you by Deputy Chief Gallagher? Is 
6 there something new that is being forwarded on January 5th that you say, quote, I know 
7 everyone is busy, but I think we may want to have a really brief call on this intel. PSB is 
8 seeing a significant uptick on groups wanting to block perimeter access to the Capitol 
9 tomorrow, starting as early as 600 hours. I know we are already spread thin, but even if 
10 we don't start CDU earlier, we may want to see what midnight teams we can pull 
11 together to address. I will come over to your office shortly. 
12 Does this not indicate that at least at the level of Chief Sund he hadn't been made 
13 aware about this tunnel intel? Or at least you seem to indicate that this is new 
14 information that you want to discuss? 
15 A I don't know that I indicated that it was new information. And I don't know 
16 that I agreed that he wasn't aware of conversations prior to. But I do think that to air on 
17 the side of caution, even though the buildings were closed, there may have been 
18 conversations and a concern that specific --and Tad, you tell me if I can't talk about this. 
19 But there may have been Members that would bring individuals into the buildings 
20 through the tunnels that would cause some concern. 
21 So that's when, again, you'll see the plus-up for the tunnels themselves, to put 
22 additional manpower or resources. And now I'm thinking back, there probably were 
23 additional grounds, patrol officers to traverse the grounds to address, to mitigate that as 
24 well. So I don't know that it was necessarily new. 
25 Q So then I guess my question is this, if everything in this email, the  43 
1 intelligence in this email is already known, why is Deputy Chief Gallagher sending it to 
2 you, if it's already something that he knows you know? And why are you forwarding it 
3 to Chief Sund, if it's something that you know Chief Sund already knows? 
4 What is the purpose of on January 5th, near the close of business, sending this 
5 intel saying, we need to talk about this intelligence, if all of this is old hat and already 
6 been discussed? 
7 A Let me give clarification. So I don't think that there were no conversations 
8 before. With that said, and this is --I don't know the particulars from a year ago just 
9 specifically about that, but even if I put it into a hypothetical perspective to give it 
10 context, if we did not make operational changes to the tunnels because the buildings 
11 were closed to COVID-19, based on the information that we had before, if you see an 
12 uptick from the intelligence saying, there may be more people trying to come into these 
13 buildings and breach our security using the tunnels --I know it's last minute. I know 
14 we're throwing everything at CDU or our operational posture outside. But maybe we 
15 should have a conversation about what can we do down in the tunnels, just in case there 
16 is a breach at a door, or we got Members bringing in certain groups that are causing a 
17 disturbance, or breaching our security protocols, and things of that nature. So I hope 
18 that kind of puts it into context. 
19 Q What that sounds to me is that potentially you're saying that the uptick 
20 would have been new. That that is something that was different. There was an 
21 increase, and you wanted to highlight that increase and potentially do something about 
22 the increase. 
23 A It could have been that that was new,-. I don't remember, 
24 specifically. And I don't know that the email captures the entirety of the conversation. 
25 But I do know, operationally, we did things differently, so there was a concern.  44 
1 Q Okay. And then in terms of then --back to the January 3rd assessment, this 
2 is something that, you know, you are bringing to the attention of the chief again, the day 
3 before, January 6th, late into the --almost close of business. Deputy Chief Gallagher has 
4 raised it to you as well. This was not a particular piece of intelligence that was included 
5 in the January 3rd assessment. And you're highlighting it, obviously, 2 days later. 
6 Do you think that --how would this piece of information get out to the 
7 department if the assessment that was completed days before is the only thing that is put 
8 out by the IICD? 
9 A That's where that holistic approach comes in. It's not just the one 
10 document or the one form that you're communicating or messaging. If I'm having a 
11 conversation --if I get some information January 6th at 3:00 a.m., and it needs to be put 
12 out, it's highly unlikely that you're going to go back and change your assessment unless it 
13 just has to be changed. But there is other ways of communicating those concerns. 
14 So, you know, for law enforcement, a lot of times that information is going to be 
15 shared at our roll calls by those operational commanders; those folks with boots on the 
16 ground. You're giving it to them. You are holding those. And sometimes we do. 
17 And I know this particular conversation is in reference to the 6th. But if you have some 
18 information that comes in last minute, you host an operational --we have a protocol set 
19 up to call the command center. Everybody dials in. It's same thing. Those 
20 operational commanders are receiving that information so that when they're going back 
21 out into the field, they're sharing it with the folks that are more than likely that are going 
22 to have to engage these individuals. 
23 Q Was the uptick in views to the tunnels, the tunnel system, was that shared, 
24 in your understanding, at roll call on January 6th? 
25 A I don't know. That wasn't my area of responsibility. I didn't have a  45 
1 conversation with that side of the House about what they shared at the roll call. And 
2 those individuals are no longer here. 
3 Q And is it fair to say then at that late period, January 5th, when you 
4 mentioned January 5th, at 3:00 in the morning, let's say, the only way that it would get 
5 down to --because there is no update on the threat assessment, because there is no sort 
6 of new product that gets put out, the way the person --the only person who would be 
7 able to communicate it down, the only other person on the chain would be Chad 
8 Thomas? 
9 A Not the only person. So Chad is at the top of the organizational chart. If 
10 he receives it, then he could host a conference call with his deputies. If it's last minute, 
11 there is information that needs to go out. We have radios. We send messages to 
12 communications. There are other means of communicating that not just he has to say 
13 it. He is giving it to his people. 
14 And I don't know if that happened, but I'm just saying it doesn't have to come 
15 direct from him. But he does have a means to communicate messaging. And no 
16 different than you would as things are changing, operationally, during while you're 
17 commanding an incident. And communications is one of the areas that broke down that 
18 day. But there are ways to communicate messaging. In situations as the information 
19 is changing or the threat is changing, you need to make adjustments. 
20 Q I want to call your attention to another email, January 1st of 2021. In it, 
21 Ms. Farnam forwards to Deputy Chief Gallagher, and others, some inspectors on the 
22 intelligence side. The intelligence that was sent by Shane Lamond from the D.C. 
23 Metropolitan Police Department. And it came in from a civilian. That tip says --this 
24 civilian says he lives right outside of D.C. --I found a website planning terroristic behavior 
25 on January 6th during the rally. Agitators from out of state will arrive and will try to stir  46 
1 up trouble in D.C. There are detailed plans to storm Federal buildings, dress incognito, 
2 and commit crimes against public officials. I strongly encourage that the D.C. Police 
3 Department look at the links below." 
4 And one of the links is a detailed plan on storming the Capitol in D.C. on 
5 January 6th. And the link is from the Donald.win site. Other links include direct threat 
6 to D.C. cops, calling for violence on January 6th, calling for shooting, calling for war in D.C. 
7 So on and so forth. 
8 I just want to first ask that particular piece of intelligence, including the supposed 
9 detailed plan on storming the Capitol. Did you see it, that particular piece of 
10 intelligence, before January 6th, of course? 
11 A I don't remember. I do remember a conversation about the Donald.win, 
12 but I don't remember the particulars. But I do --that website is not foreign to me. It's 
13 not like, you know, this is the first time I've heard of it. 
14 Q Okay. And I think I have already asked about whether in terms of storming 
15 the Capitol the conversations that were held with leadership on the operational side of 
16 the department. So on this one, you said, you don't recall if you saw that particular 
17 piece of intelligence, right? 
18 
19 A 
Q No, I don't recall. 
I just want to also point to December 28th of 2020. It's an email from a 
20 so-called internet expert tracking far right extremism. She indicates that there are 
21 indications of storming the Capitol on line for January 6th. Do you recall if you saw that? 
22 It was sent to the Public Information Officer Or Office inbox at Capitol Police. Do you 
23 recall if you saw that particular piece of intelligence? 
24 A I would say that I did not see this. 
25 Q And why is it that you feel confident saying you did not this versus the earlier  47 
1 piece, you said you weren't sure if you had? What about this makes it clear to you that 
2 you know you did not see this? 
3 A When I received your packet, like I said, the Donald.win is not foreign to me. 
4 I remember hearing that, maybe having a conversation about it. But this, when I 
5 received this in the documentation that you sent over, I know I didn't see this prior to. 
6 Q Okay. In terms of storming the Capitol, just in terms of the intelligence, 
7 you do recall not specific pieces referring to it, but that there --you knew that there were 
8 chatter about it online before January 6th? Or that particular scenario, storming the 
9 Capitol, you are not quite sure if you had been told that there was chatter about it? 
10 A I don't remember the specific details about storming the Capitol. 
11 remember having conversations about the Donald.win. If that encompassed storming 
12 the Capitol, I'm sure that it was probably said. I forget the second part of your question. 
13 But, yeah, that term or conversation is --I am confident that that's not the first time I 
14 have heard it. 
15 The PIO document would have gone to the Public Information Officer, and it says 
16 it's on the 28th. I don't remember this document at all. So I wasn't familiar with it. 
17 But the Donald.win, I am familiar. But the specifics, the conversations at that time, I 
18 don't remember. 
19 Q The last email I want to point your attention to is one sent by Ms. Farnam, 
20 December 31st of 2020, in which she raises a concern that the permit requests for One 
21 Nation Under God and Bryan Lewis may just be proxies for Stop the Steal. And then she 
22 indicates her concern that Stop the Steal is the generally more violent group. And, you 
23 know, sort of indicating that this may --it maybe more coordinated. Right? That 
24 putting in permits under different names. That really some of these, at least, are the 
25 same group. It's a larger group than what they're putting out there.  48 
1 I want to ask you about what was made of this warning, but not in terms of 
2 denying the permit. It's my understanding Capitol Police has not denied a permit 
3 previously. So I am less interested in denying the permit. I'm more interested in that 
4 warning. What, if anything, operationally, was done about it? The concern that we 
5 previously think that these groups that are demonstrating at the Capitol are separate 
6 groups, but potentially some of them might actually be the same group, and they might 
7 be Stop the Steal, which is known to be violent. 
8 A I know that there were conversations about this. I know that there was an 
9 inquiry with Tad, a general counsel either between Chief Gallagher and Tad. It could 
10 have been Chief Gallagher, myself, and Chief Sund. But I know that there was a 
11 conversation about this concern with general counsel. 
12 Mr. Di Biase. And, of course, don't talk about what that was. But I think he is 
13 asking were there any operational changes. 
14 Is that your question,_? Did we make any operational changes as a result of 
15 deciding not to deny this permit? 
16 I think that's-'s question. 
17 
18 Ms. Pittman. Okay. Got you. 
I don't know that they made any operational changes. I would have to go back 
19 and look through my notes. And you said that we've already answered the question. 
20 We wouldn't have denied the permit. But I don't remember the particulars on it. I do 
21 remember the conversations. 
22 BY 
23 Q Okay. And so then you did --at least for the record, you did, you were 
24 aware about this warning that Ms. Farnam sort of elevated up the chain. I think it was 
25 first to Deputy Chief Gallagher, but it made its way to you. Yes?  1 
2 A 
Q Yes. Yes. 
And were you a part of the conversations? And I think I get that the 
3 conversations mostly centered on whether to deny the permit or not. But you were a 
4 part of those conversations. Is that fair? 
5 A I think that's fair. 
6 Q The last thing I wanted to ask you is about the National Guard. What did 49 
7 you think of the role of the D.C. National Guard was originally set to play on January 6th? 
8 I know for a different department, the Metropolitan Police Department which works to 
9 assist with traffic control points. 
10 And did you agree, at least with the lack of a request by Capitol Police before 
11 January 6th, did you before heading into January 6th see or envision or would prefer the 
12 larger role for the D.C. National Guard, either outside the department in the streets of 
13 D.C. but also potentially to assist Capitol Police with civil disturbance? 
14 A I want to be sure I'm clear because you mentioned that National Guard had a 
15 different role with --I think you didn't say MPD, but it was with MPD to do traffic. 
16 
17 Q 
A Yes. 
You're asking if --or what did I think about National Guard either being 
18 requested here to do traffic or be a part of the Civil Disturbance Unit? I just wanted to --
19 Q Yes let me put it more simply. Let me put it more simply. Should there 
20 have been a larger role for the National Guard heading into January 6th? 
21 A I know that the National Guard was requested. And I believe that the 
22 National Guard was needed on January 6th. 
23 Q And when you say it was requested, I'm sorry, do you mean by Capitol 
24 Police; do you mean by Metropolitan Police Department? Who did you mean by you 
25 knew that it was requested?  I knew that it was requested by Chief Sund to the Capitol Police Board. 
And, of course, you mean that prior to January 6th, in the lead to? 
Yes, sir. 50 
1 
2 
3 
4 A 
Q 
A 
Q And what was your view about that request and what role they would play in 
5 your ideal world leading into January 6th? 
6 A I agreed that we should make the request, and I also agreed that they should 
7 not be here in a traffic control --and I don't even that that was ever even entertained like 
8 we were even thinking about bringing --that was totally for Metropolitan. And maybe 
9 some from the Department of Defense may ask those questions, because usually they 
10 want to know what role you want to use them in. But Tad is, of course, our --gives us 
11 guidance on what title we ask them for; if they're here in a law enforcement capacity. 
12 And I think there is some different requirements. But I don't know that Capitol Police 
13 ever made the suggestion that they should come here in a type of traffic control situation. 
14 That wasn't our concern. It was more CDU. 
15 Q Right. No, of course. And I know that that role was for Metropolitan 
16 Police Department. 
17 My last question is about offers of assistance, if you're aware. You've been 
18 asked previously about it, and I know you were --sometimes you had mentioned that you 
19 weren't familiar with it. I wonder if now that some time has passed you have become 
20 familiar with whether Capitol Police --you know, some people use the word quote 
21 rebuffed or denied, let's --more neutral. Denied assistance from DHS, from FBI, or 
22 DOJ -DOJ/FBI officials, from Park Police, some resources that they extended during 
23 January 6th. Do you recall those offers of assistance and whether or not they were 
24 accepted, and why or why not? 
25 A First, let me say, you said that previously I said that I didn't remember if Park  51 
1 Police, Metropolitan, and the FBI offered assistance? 
2 Q It was not being familiar. I can quote. And previously: Are you familiar 
3 with Loudoun County reaching out to Capitol Police to offer assistance? I am not 
4 familiar with Loudoun County was your answer. Are you familiar with DHS reaching out 
5 to Capitol Police to offer assistance? I am not familiar with DHS was your answer. 
6 And so that's only those particular two. But I'm wondering if either you have 
7 insight into either of those two or Park Police, FBI, and DOJ offering resources? 
8 A So my answers are still the same. I am not aware of Loudoun County or 
9 some of the other local police departments reaching out to Capitol Police. I'm not 
10 aware of the FBI or the others that you mentioned as well. What I can say is that on 
11 that call on January 5th, that was really geared towards the inauguration. There was 
12 conversations about January 6th. And individuals on that call said they would be 
13 available to Capitol Police. One specific I know was General Walker for the D.C. National 
14 Guard. 
15 I believe that there were offline conversations between Chief Sund and different 
16 persons, whether it was Sergeant at Arms. But to whatever extent he may have had 
17 direct requests from specific local law enforcement, I'm not aware of that. 
18 And then I can also say that there was a discussion amongst the leadership, 
19 and --well amongst the leadership about making a request for local police departments. 
20 We talked about it a little bit. The COG, the Mutual Council of Governments, and how 
21 law enforcement makes that request. I do remember those conversation. And, of 
22 course, that went into play on January 6th. But those specific ones you named, no, I'm 
23 not aware of. 
24 Q And in terms of the D.C. National Guard, you said that Chief Sund --you are 
25 aware of requests he made to the Capitol Board to have the D.C. National Guard be of  52 
1 assistance. Is it your understanding that those requests were denied? 
2 A That is my understanding, yes. 
And you aren't yourself a part of those conversations. Is that correct? 3 
4 Q 
A I was not on the phone. Like I said, a conference call or anything like that. 
5 No, I was not. 
6 
7 
8 
9 Q 
A 
Q 
colleague, And the source of this information would have been Chief Sund? To you? 
Yes. 
Perfect. Thank you so very much. I am going to ask now that my 
continue with the questioning. I appreciate your time, Chief 
10 Pittman. 
11 A Thank you. All right. 
12 Good afternoon, Chief Pittman. How are you today? 
13 Mr. DeBiase. Hey,_ it's Tad. Could we just take a little short break for 
14 her, if that's okay? I mean, for all of us. 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 Absolutely. Do you want to take a 5-minute break? 
Mr. Di Biase. Yeah, that would be great. 
Chief Pittman. Perfect. Thank you, Bryan. 
- You're welcome. 
[Recess.]  53 
1 
2 [3:05 p.m.] 
3 [Brief audio malfunction.] 
4 BY 
5 Q And these --this first bucket is not just limited to intelligence. Okay? But 
6 having the benefit of your experience and the hindsight of January 6th, all the OIG flash 
7 reports that have come out, all of the information that we've learned to date, from your 
8 perspective, what are some things that need to change within the Capitol Police in order 
9 to better prepare it to defend against something like this from happening again or 
10 prevent something like this from happening again? 
11 And then the second bucket of questions, after we deal with the first is, what 
12 impediments, if any, do you think are in the way, whether they be political or social or 
13 fiscal, are in the way of the Capitol Police being able to achieve some of the changes that 
14 you think might be helpful? 
15 So, with that table setting, let's start with the first bucket of questions, which is, 
16 what do you think --and I'm asking you from a broad perspective. Again, I'm not 
17 limiting it specifically to intelligence, but given your current position, your former 
18 position, your time as the acting chief, what do you think are some of the changes that 
19 need to happen within the Capitol Police in order to better prepare it to prevent 
20 something like this from happening again? 
21 A Thank you,_, for the question. There are a number of areas that 
22 needed to be reviewed from top to bottom or changed. But I would say some of the 
23 highlights would be communications, training. I would say technology. And maybe I'd 
24 throw in infrastructure under that technology piece. Staffing is a big concern, and then 
25 the equipment for the department.  54 
1 Q So let's take each of those in course. So what is it about communication 
2 that you think needs to be changed within the Capitol Police? 
3 A It crosses a number of bureaus. I'll give you several examples. Just within 
4 intelligence, and I know you said not limited to that, but the way that we were 
5 communicating within IICD, in particular, the relationship between the director, assistant 
6 director, supervisors, and the analysts, how they were communicating with the task force 
7 officers that are embedded with the FBI on their respective units, whether it's behavioral 
8 health analysis, violent crimes, the cyber task force, but making sure that those silos don't 
9 exist. 
10 The sharing of information between the intel side of the House to threats and how 
11 countersurveillance is doing its operations. When you have a large scale event moving 
12 over into more so the Operational Services Bureau or the Uniformed Services Bureau, the 
13 way you're communicating with your officers, the rank and file. In law enforcement, we 
14 have what's called the incident command system. And it's basically a hierarchy of who's 
15 in charge, who's giving orders, who's giving direction. 
16 But one of the lessons learned from January 6th is when you have a crowd of 
17 thousands of individuals communicating via radio, give either direction to your officers or 
18 to the crowd becomes particularly challenging. You cannot do that with just a bullhorn. 
19 The radios became overwhelmed, so the traffic is getting jammed. And then officers in 
20 the field are compromised if they can't hear, if they have on a ballistic helmet. So 
21 making sure that they have the proper equipment so that they can communicate 
22 effectively. 
23 So I think those --I think that was the first piece that you asked me about in terms 
24 of communication. 
25 I would say as far as the executive team or the leadership, making sure that the  55 
1 leadership is communicating effectively first internally with each other and its staff, but 
2 also externally with the stakeholders. Are they getting the intelligence briefs? Are 
3 they being updated with the security posture? Are they being updated with the 
4 assessments so that everybody is pretty much on the same page. 
5 Q Could we talk a little bit about the executive senior leadership team, since 
6 you brought that up. You know, it's clear to me in the time I've got to spend with your 
7 organization that the Capitol Police has a diverse portfolio of responsibilities. The 
8 people that you are charged to protect within the Capitol Grounds come from diverse 
9 backgrounds. And within the sort of line officer level, there seems to be a great deal of 
10 diversity in officers. 
11 What are your thoughts about --do you think that that diversity is represented in 
12 the senior leadership team? And if yes or no, why? And if not, what are some things 
13 we can do to address that? 
14 A So, no, I do not think that diversity is represented enough within the senior 
15 leadership team. I think we've made stride --strides to start to address that. We're 
16 really happy about the changes that we have made, but I think that we could always 
17 improve. And I think that we have to review our policies and procedures to make sure 
18 that from hire to retire you're looking at that and always keeping diversity in the 
19 forefront. 
20 So once you're getting a diverse group of officers in the door or even on your 
21 civilian side, do we have specific programs in place that promote career development? 
22 Who are those individuals coming from diverse backgrounds? Are we having individuals 
23 review our policies and practices for promotions, for example, to make sure that they're 
24 fair and equitable to a diverse population so that I have just as much as an opportunity as 
25 other individuals to be on that scale, if I so choose? Are we recognizing --do we have  56 
1 any type of talent acquisition that we're recognizing talent? And what are we doing in 
2 terms of mentorship or internship to make sure that we're developing that talent so that 
3 one day they would be in those executive chairs? 
4 So I think that there is accomplishments that have been made, but there's 
5 definitely more work to do. 
6 Q I appreciate that. And I appreciate you going through that explanation. 
7 And it raises, in my mind, a question: What are some of the changes that you have 
8 made in that regard, in terms of the diversity in the senior leadership --on to the senior 
9 leadership team issue? 
10 A So I would just say, just in the last year, within this last year, we --it hasn't 
11 been rolled out yet, and I see Tad giving me the eye. 
12 
13 Mr. DiBiase. No. 
Chief Pittman. Okay. We have selected a diversity officer. That person will 
14 be reporting directly to the chief of police. And like I said previously for intelligence, we 
15 believe that the change starts at the top. So that person is in the process of completing 
16 background. So we believe in the next, you know, coming weeks or so we'll have 
17 somebody here that will specifically be looking at those policies, procedures, asking us as 
18 the executives, what are you all doing, what have you done? And then bringing us a 
19 plan, a roadmap, so to speak, where do we want to be 5 years from now, 3 years from 
20 now, and what things are we going to put in place to get there? 
21 For example, on Tad's side of the House with general counsel, we've brought in 
22 some new folks to his side of the House with diverse backgrounds. Eventually, Capitol 
23 Police will be doing a promotional process. I know it's a priority of Chief Manger to 
24 make sure that there is more diversity within those upper ranks, your deputy chiefs and 
25 above. So all of those things will continue to develop.  57 
1 On the recruitment side, I believe that the changes we've made is, maybe 
2 somewhere around March after January 6th, I assigned an inspector over the Office of 
3 Background and Investigations and Recruiting. We previously had a lieutenant. But as 
4 we all are aware now, we knew that from the recommendations from the OIG, as well as 
5 General Honore's report, there were hundreds of officers that Capitol Police have 
6 identified that were short. So we knew that we had to have a senior leader oversee that 
7 program from FY '22, I believe, to FY '26. We now have a roadmap to bring in hundreds 
8 of officers. And, with that, we are considering diversity at the forefront. 
9 So we want to make sure we're tapping into historically Black colleges and 
10 universities, we're tapping into our Asian communities, we're tapping into officers from 
11 various geographic regions because members are all over the country. We've 
12 established regional field offices since January 6th. The first two are in Florida and 
13 California. So with the different regions, we know that there's different climates of 
14 threats. We want to have those relationships with local law enforcement so that we're 
15 addressing those members' concerns with boots on the ground. 
16 So bringing in a holistic approach and having someone help create that roadmap 
17 for us from the time we bring them in on up to their career development I think is going 
18 to be key going forward. And we have done numerous things to start to address those 
19 concerns. 
20 
21 Q I appreciate that, Chief Pittman. 
And that actually addresses the staffing question that I had. I'm sorry, I don't 
22 think we talked about that because I think you covered that well. 
23 One of the other categories you mentioned that you saw a potential for 
24 improvement was technology. Tell me what your thoughts are about that. 
25 A So when it comes to technology, one of the things that we did relatively  58 
1 quickly after the 6th was we issued all of our officers cell phones. As- asked the 
2 question and as well as others, how are we distributing or disseminating that intelligence 
3 information? Should we still be having kind of old school conversations and just passing 
4 out information at roll calls? As we know that there are generational differences, a lot 
5 of times the senior management, like myself, are a lot older, but young people 
6 communicate a lot via technology, very --you don't often see them without their cell 
7 phones. So that's a great platform to use to quickly disseminate intelligence 
8 information. 
9 So now that they have those phones, we are able to give them a daily intelligence 
10 report. They receive daily products. And I believe the chief testified just the other day 
11 so much so that some officers feel like, whoa, you're giving me too much information. 
12 But we, as the chief stated, rather give too much than not enough. And we're able to 
13 quickly put out information as, you know, this threat environment around here is 
14 dynamic. It's constantly changing. So we're able to quickly push that information out. 
15 I think more work has to be done in terms of the infrastructure and using 
16 technology to really survey this campus. And I know there has been a lot of discussion 
17 or displeasure expressed in regards to having an open campus. As we know, some of 
18 our peers or counterparts down at the White House, they have fencing. And I don't 
19 think that fencing is an only option to say that we can mitigate any challenges to the 
20 campus. But I do think there's a lot of other technology that other companies use, 
21 embassies use, other countries use that we should at least explore those possibilities. 
22 think it's going to take a significant amount of financial resources. 
23 If we did have some type of underground structures that could come up, if we 
24 change the landscaping to buy law enforcement agency time to slow down a crowd size 
25 the magnitude of January 6th. But I think now is the time to have those conversations  59 
1 and say how much are we willing to invest in our safety to prevent a January 6th from 
2 happening again. 
3 Q I appreciate that, Chief. And that does cover nicely the infrastructure 
4 question which I had next. 
5 So having spent some time talking about the things that need to be --that need to 
6 be addressed and the changes that you've already made in that regard, looking 
7 prospectively towards the future, understanding, as you said, there's still work to be done 
8 in many areas, what, if any, impediments or obstacles are in the way of Capitol Police 
9 achieving that? 
10 You know, one of the responsibilities of the committee is not just to identify what 
11 went wrong and how it went wrong, but also to identify and make recommendations for 
12 what we can do to prevent it from happening again, you know. And that's a pretty 
13 broad ledge, right? 
14 And so, you know, from your perspective, based on your experience, what things 
15 do you think are in the way that we should be thinking about ways to either get under or 
16 over or through in order to help the Capitol Police get to where it needs to be or wants to 
17 be in the future? 
18 A I think that one of the ways --and, of course, there are many --that the 
19 Congress could help Capitol Police is maybe some of that cultural change. And by 
20 cultural change I mean, some of it has to be a mind-set that we're not just going to be a 
21 reactive force, but we're going to proactively address future challenges that relate to 
22 security. 
23 So I'm not just responding or I think by and large Capitol Police was taking an 
24 incremental approach to addressing security needs. And we --we get that you have to 
25 be stewards of the budget, good financial stewards. However, sometimes there are  60 
1 limitations that I think that that has put us in that we've had to make hard choices. I've 
2 got to --the budget is only so big, and I can only address so many things within that. 
3 So maybe constant analysis and review on what are we looking to address in the 
4 future, not just what's in front of us but what we think is on the horizon, what's coming, 
5 whether it be some type of cyber type of threats, what are we doing to address, again, 
6 the infrastructure? 
7 By and large, I've been here over 20 years now. I came on right at 9/11. And I 
8 believe that was probably under Chief Terry Gainer that we first started to change some 
9 of the infrastructure around the campus. So prior to that, those barricades and barriers 
10 in the streets and things, none of that existed. It was much more open. And I 
11 remember the opposition that he faced when he made those suggestions back then. 
12 Folks did not want those things in place. And now we've adjusted. But by and large, 
13 it's been the same. 
14 So maybe a cultural mind-set that says security has to be constantly evolving and 
15 you don't want to be behind the eight ball, you want to be in front of it. So what are we 
16 doing as a community to address our needs before these types of events have a 
17 possibility of happening? 
18 
19 Q Understood, ma'am. 
And it raises a question in my mind. You know, the United States Capitol Police 
20 is unique in that you have over 400 individual clients, right? And each of those clients 
21 have support and staff. And so there's a lot of, at least from the outside looking in, a lot 
22 of sort of external --what I'll call external input into Capitol Police operations. 
23 From a perspective of who has the final say in what the security posture should 
24 be, whether that is strategic, to your point, being proactive and strategic thinking about 
25 stuff in the future or tactical, do you feel as if there's a right balance between the Capitol  61 
1 Police as sort of the people with the expertise to carry that out and the clients, or is there 
2 some sort of imbalance that maybe we need to think about addressing? 
3 A I think that it's somewhat balanced. I think that there's a great relationship 
4 between the chief of police as well as the Capitol Police Board. I do think that it is a 
5 challenge, particularly at times for the chief to make security decisions, when you can 
6 be --when you have a lot of folks that you have to answer to. So I do think the chief 
7 needs to have a certain level of autonomy to make security decisions. Because, for me, 
8 at the end of the day, the chief is going to be held accountable for whatever successes or 
9 failures take place relating to security on the campus. 
10 So, in my mind, if I am going to be held accountable for having CDU and posturing 
11 them, or bike rack, or fencing, I want to own that. And I don't mind taking on the 
12 responsibility, and I know others don't as well, but give me that flexibility to do my job. 
13 Q Thank you, Chief. I appreciate your time. I think those are all the 
14 questions that I have for you. So, again, thank you for your time. 
15 
16 
17 
18 I'll turn it back over to Robin to see if he has any additional questions. 
A Thank you. 
BY 
Q Yes. Chief Pittman, I just kind of wanted to run through your day on 
19 January 6th. So if you could just start with where you were from the morning until you 
20 started to get word or you started to see the crowds from the Ellipse move over, march 
21 over to the Capitol. 
22 A The morning of January 6th I responded, and I don't know what time. I'm 
23 sure it was in the wee hours of the morning. Responded, and I believe there were a few 
24 briefs or meetings, but primarily the command staff was in the command center. And 
25 there were incidents happening. And I don't have my timeline in front of me, but very  62 
1 early on, Capitol Police was taking calls of a man with a gun in this part of D.C. 
2 Metropolitan was making arrests. 
3 So as we are taking in information, we're pushing out that information to our 
4 officers. I had countersurveillance teams out and deployed. We also had some 
5 Members, if I'm not mistaken, down at the Ellipse, so we had dignitary protection 
6 deployed outside as well as inside of the campus. 
7 But as the morning continued, I believe that it started with the bomb threats. 
8 don't remember the exact time of the first one. I believe it was around between 10 and 
9 10:30, 10:38, something like that. We started making decisions to handle each of those 
10 threats. So it started with the bomb threats. I think there were several arrests of 
11 individuals with guns. And then we had the suspicious person in vehicle where there 
12 were explosives found. So all of this is occurring before the crowds started to come on 
13 the grounds. 
14 Q Do you recall whether Vice President-elect Harris was in the DNC at the time 
15 that one such device was found outside of the headquarters there? 
16 A I don't recall that from that day, but I've since, of course, seen that in various 
17 reports. But I don't recall that from that particular day. 
18 Q So as you're sitting there in the command center through this morning, 
19 hearing these reports, as you said, of the explosive devices, purported explosive devices 
20 and certain arrests, who's there at the command center with you? 
21 A Chief Sund, Chief Thomas, I believe Chief Gallagher, Tad, probably Jack 
22 Donohue --not probably --Jack was there. I can't remember if Julie was there. Maybe 
23 they both were in the command center. It was a full house around the dais, so pretty 
24 much all of the operational commanders, with the exception of Deputy Chief Waldow was 
25 out in the field. And I can't think of anybody else right now. I'm pretty sure I'm  63 
1 forgetting somebody. But for the most part, the command staff was in the command 
2 center. The executive team was in the command center. And we did have an 
3 operational --a couple of field commanders out in the field. 
4 Q And so as these, you know, calls are being fielded, what are --what is your 
5 role that day as you understood it? What was it that you were sort of going to be 
6 heading? 
7 A So my primary role is always going to be for the Dignitary Protection Division 
8 and being responsible for the congressional leadership. So within Protective Service 
9 Bureau, if there is a hierarchy, so to speak, DPD and making sure that the leadership is 
10 safe is going to be priority number one. Making sure that you have sufficient resources 
11 in place to ensure their safety, if you needed to relocate to another position, what have 
12 you. That's the primary responsibility. 
13 All of those other, whether it's countersurveillance, threat units, intelligence units, 
14 they are feeding the beast, so to speak. They're feeding that operational center to 
15 ensure that you can make sure that priority number one is taken care of. 
16 Q So as we're still here before any of the crowds have shifted over and there 
17 were, as you said, some bomb scares elsewhere and some arrests, is there anything that 
18 requires you to either shift resources or as it pertains to your area of responsibility, or is 
19 everything sort of --again, before the crowds are moved over, nothing is either out of 
20 ordinary in terms of your sort of area? 
21 A No. There are requirements that --tactically speaking, there were some 
22 changes made that I probably wouldn't go into detail on this call in an open forum. But, 
23 yes, tactically speaking, there were changes made as the crowds became more violent or 
24 there's more people. We need to move differently so that we make sure that we have a 
25 backup plan if things go left.  64 
1 Q So can you just go through, without getting into details, to who was moved 
2 where? Just what were your concerns I guess? Again, this is before, and if there's any 
3 marching from the Ellipse before the President's speech, what were --in terms of, you 
4 know, your area of responsibility protecting the Members of Congress, what were your 
5 concerns that you were seeing out there that made --that precipitated these tactical 
6 changes? 
7 A You're always concerned if you need to have movement of the leadership as 
8 well as the congressional body. You need to have routes in place or resources in place 
9 to make that happen. And so you make tactical decisions based on the information 
10 you're receiving. So if there is a need to get folks out that, you can do that and do that 
11 in a safe and efficient manner. 
12 Q But I guess my question is about what was happening on January 6th. Was 
13 there anything, at this point in the story, that led you to think that you needed to either 
14 change those plans or go through with those plans in moving congressional leadership? 
15 It's my understanding at this point the certification is still scheduled to move 
16 forward. The Vice President makes his way to the Capitol around noon. Is it fair to say 
17 that nothing major is changing at least until or before the crowds move over from the 
18 Ellipse? 
19 
20 A 
Q Yes. Yes. That is correct. Yes. 
Okay. So maybe lead me to the first moment that something does change 
21 in terms of the security picture in your area of responsibility, of course, on January 6th, 
22 whenever that happens, whenever it is that you first start to realize that there is 
23 something afoot. 
24 A I don't know if it's when maybe we're at the third device --and all of these 
25 things are kind of happening simultaneously, so it is hard to pick apart, oh, this was the  65 
1 trigger, and when this happened, we did B. It wasn't necessarily one thing, but things 
2 are happening pretty quickly and at the same time. 
3 But at some point, there was an evacuation of the Cannon --or part of the 
4 Cannon. And I'd have to go back through my notes, Robin, to see when we started to 
5 say, you know, we need to reposition. I would say it had to probably be a little later as 
6 the crowds are getting larger and more aggressive. And what exact time that happened, 
7 I don't know. I used to have the timelines remembered from the hearings, but I don't 
8 have it off the top of my head. 
9 
10 Q 
A I'm less interested in times and more just what you're observing. 
Okay. We're observing aggressive behavior. The officers at this point are 
11 being attacked. 
12 
13 
14 Q 
A 
Q Well --Capitol Police officers at the Capitol Grounds? 
Yes. 
Okay. Well, let me back up a little bit then. Were you guys --were you 
15 listening at all to the President's speech at the Ellipse? 
16 A We had it on. It was on in the command center. 
17 Q And, again, you tell me if you recall this, if it stood out to you when the 
18 President mentions, you know, we're going to go march now, right, he made it appear as 
19 though he himself was also going to go from the Ellipse to the Capitol. Did that stick out 
20 in your mind? Did that worry you? Did that concern you? What did you think about 
21 that? 
22 A To put it in context, we have phone lines blowing up, radios blowing up, 
23 hundreds of officers starting to engage, and that was well before the President's speech 
24 ended. I do remember that from the timeline. So if the protesters started marching 
25 here at 12:30ish or 12:38, 12:40, for some reason that sticks out in my mind, I don't think  66 
1 the President's speech concluded until 1 o'clock or 1:10. So we were having problems 
2 on the campus well before his speech ended. So we would have been mitigating threats 
3 before he says whatever he said. So we're putting out fires well before that speech 
4 ends. 
5 Q Okay. And so you're alluding --how did you figure out that some of the 
6 group at the Ellipse were peeling off and already starting their march to the Capitol 
7 before the President's speech had even ended? Who --how'd you get that intelligence? 
8 How did you figure that out? 
9 A We have folks in the field. We have a robust camera system within the 
10 communication or command center. We have every law enforcement agency in the 
11 region represented. So on days like that, you're getting intel from MPD. MPD has an 
12 operations center or a JOC set up. Park Police, Secret Service, all of those commanders 
13 are housed within the Capitol Police Command Center. So you're getting information. 
14 That way you're getting information from our folks that we have out in the field, we're 
15 getting information from their folks, and we're monitoring the campus via the camera 
16 system. 
17 Q And so had you --was that a surprise to you at all the sort of marching from 
18 the Ellipse to the Capitol or was that --was everyone basically anticipating that that was 
19 going to happen? 
20 
21 A 
Q Yes. 
You guys foresaw that --previously --that that was going to happen. That's 
22 what you're saying yes to? 
23 A Yes, I am saying that we foresaw that there was going to be demonstrations 
24 on our grounds. 
25 Q Okay. And so before --as you see these crowds peeling off, before they  67 
1 interact with any Capitol Police officers, is there any warning that you receive intelligence 
2 as you could see plainly before your eyes with the cameras or from your partners there, 
3 anything that tipped you off about the tone or the mood, let's say before they get 
4 aggressive with the officers at the racks, at the bike racks? 
5 A We were getting information about the tone, some of the things that people 
6 are marching and saying. But we're also aware of the arrests that are being made, and 
7 that is a serious concern to us, those individuals that are armed. So we want to address 
8 those things. 
9 But as far as a crowd itself being violent before they reached the grounds, there 
10 was no intelligence that were saying we've got a group of 30 that are armed and they're 
11 doing A, B, C, and D. So it's, like I said, a lot of moving parts on the day of, between that, 
12 the pipe bombs being placed around the city, around --adjacent to the campus, as well as 
13 that vehicle that had the explosives and ammunition in it as well. 
14 Q And so before there's any interaction between the protesters and police, it 
15 sounds as though there were two things, the sort of arrests from that day, which I take it 
16 dealt a lot with folks being armed. Is that right? 
17 A Yes. Arrests, reports of folks being armed, reports of MPD arresting 
18 individuals with weapons. Then the first suspicious package I believe was in front of the 
19 court. That was the very first one. And then the pipe bombs that we had to address as 
20 the day progressed. 
21 Q And the second piece of that you mentioned is you were hearing reports 
22 about rhetoric, violent rhetoric. Do you recall some of what you remember hearing? 
23 Do you recall or did anyone advise you of threats to the Vice President or maybe animus 
24 towards law enforcement officers being traitors or so on and so forth? Anything like 
25 that that you --was being told to you?  68 
1 A I don't recall the specifics from that day, like in the manner in which you 
2 asked the question, no. 
3 Q In terms of the rhetoric, you don't recall what sort of --but you do recall 
4 being told about some of the rhetoric. Is that right? 
5 
6 A 
Q Yes. Yes, I do. Yeah. 
Okay. And then you --so now at this point you mentioned that there was 
7 aggression between, once they reached Capitol Police, between Capitol Police and the 
8 rioters. So just walk me through what you're seeing and what you're doing --you 
9 yourself of course --throughout the --throughout the attack. 
10 A So I want to say initially they started to engage the officers. We're 
11 watching it on the west side of the campus, probably on the Pennsylvania Avenue 
12 walkway. You'll see the exchanges between those --and those officers kind of back up. 
13 We also are watching the engagements or interaction between those on the east side, 
14 because it's happening almost at the same time. 
15 So my role doesn't change as far as what my primary area of responsibility. At 
16 that time, the leadership is safe. The building hasn't been breached. The legislative 
17 process continues. So --but we are paying attention. There's definitely 
18 communications between the countersurveillance units and the DPD agents, inside, 
19 outside, making sure that we are tracking the movement of leadership and such. 
20 Q So walk me through when maybe something does change in terms of 
21 potentially when backup from MPD is called. When is it that the aggression escalates 
22 and a change in resources is required or requested? 
23 A I would say that the aggression escalates between --1 o'clock and 2 o'clock 
24 would be probably the peak times of the aggression. MPD is called probably around 
25 12:58, 1 o'clock, give or take, you know, a few minutes here or there. They arrive.  69 
1 They --very quickly they start to engage. At that time, they are still --the Capitol still 
2 hasn't been breached. But DPD is starting to posture as they're moving closer to the 
3 buildings. And I don't remember the exact time of the breach, but then that's when we 
4 start to say, okay, we've got to make moves to get the leadership out. 
5 
6 
7 
8 Q 
A 
Q 
A And so is that when --is that sort of your area of responsibility? 
That is exactly my area of responsibility. Yes. 
Okay. And so what do you start coordinating and doing? 
I wouldn't feel comfortable having that conversation on this call about how 
9 we evacuate the leadership or how we maneuver to put things in position to move them. 
10 I --I'd rather have that in a more closed forum. 
11 Q I guess I'm less interested, again, in where people ended up or who led them 
12 where. I'm interested in what you did. So what are --what are you literally physically 
13 doing? Who are you calling? Who are you talking to? What are you --I'm 
14 making --what are you making? What are you constructing? What are you 
15 coordinating? That's what I'm interested in you talking about, if you could. 
16 A Yes. And I think for me it's probably one and the same. So I am giving 
17 direction to Chief Gallagher and I believe it's Inspector Snyder. They're reporting back to 
18 me. We need to move person A to a specific location. We need to reposition vehicles 
19 and stage so that they get out safely. So I'm coordinating those movements. And then 
20 I need to have accountability so that we can report back to the Sergeant at Arms that 
21 these individuals have moved to location X and they are safe. 
22 
23 Q 
A Who are you speaking with mostly on the ground over at the Capitol? 
The Sergeant at Arms representatives, as well as intermittently Chief Sund 
24 and the Deputy Sergeant at Arms for both the House --well, I'll say for the Senate. I'm 
25 not sure of the individual's title on the House side. But I have a House side Sergeant at  1 Arms represented as well. That communication is constant. 
2 Q Are you aware of who maybe Chief Waldow is --Chief Waldow is at the 
3 grounds of Capitol, right? 
4 
5 A 
Q Yes. 
And I think he's sort of also serving as a person on the ground, kind of 
6 feeding information back to the command center. Is that correct? 70 
7 A He's --I don't know if he's feeding information back to the command center. 
8 He is on the grounds at the Capitol because he is the CDU commander. So those guys 
9 out there that are fighting and having --being attacked by the protesters, he is in charge 
10 of those individuals. 
11 Q Within the command center, I guess, and I think you mentioned maybe 
12 Deputy Chief Gallagher, but is there any one else who you're sort of corresponding with 
13 and speaking to? 
14 A It would be Inspector Snyder. There were probably --and I can't remember 
15 who the DPD supervisor that was in the command center that day, but there was a DPD 
16 supervisor. There was also a supervisor that's in charge of this countersurveillance unit 
17 that came into the command center. Inspector Mitchell was in charge of the threat 
18 assessments section, so she was there. 
19 So I'm communicating with them from Protective Services Bureau, as well as the 
20 Sergeant at Arms representatives that are in the command center. 
21 Q If you could just then go on now. You know, we've had the breach you 
22 mentioned and you're coordinating moving Members and leadership to safe places. If 
23 you could just go on as to what happens next in the day for you. 
24 A So what happens next in a day for me is I start coordinating with those same 
25 Deputy Sergeant at Arms and a House side representative on the movement of the actual  71 
1 body, the entire Congress, you know, the House and the Senate. So we have specific 
2 locations that are designated that we trained, that if there is some type of compromise of 
3 those Houses, we need to move individuals to their safe location. 
4 And, of course, that was challenging that day because a lot of individuals were 
5 barricaded in their offices, locked in, or routes may have been blocked. So I'm 
6 coordinating with the Sergeant at Arms as well as the boots on the ground. We had 
7 CERT teams within the building that were going in and extracting Members, as well as 
8 their staff, to get them to those safe locations. 
9 Q You mentioned to us previously that the command center was 
10 overwhelmed, some people were not making decisions, and so you started making 
11 operational decisions outside of your area of responsibility, which included locking down 
12 the Capitol. 
Yes. 13 
14 
15 
16 A 
Q Can you go into that, please? 
A Yes. 
around 2 p.m. So I believe the time at this point is maybe a little before 2, right 
I ordered a --the first lockdown was of the Capitol Building itself. 
17 Based on my operational experience and years that I spent in Uniformed Services Bureau, 
18 the Capitol division is trained in that respective area that procedurally they can lock the 
19 building down. And what that means for us is nobody in and nobody out. And that's 
20 regardless if it's police officers that are outside of those doors and what have you. It 
21 could be Members. It doesn't matter. When you order a lockdown, nobody in and 
22 nobody out. 
23 In addition to that, I started the coordination for getting the law 
24 enforcement --additional law enforcement assets here on the campus and then getting 
25 them deployed. So I do remember that General Counsel Tad was doing the  72 
1 administrative part of sending over the paperwork that needs to be signed so that we can 
2 start to call in PG County, Arlington. We had folks come --law enforcement agencies 
3 come from as far away as the New Jersey State Police. 
4 So coordinating that is pretty --a pretty large responsibility because, not only do 
5 you have to make sure that they are protected under the law, they have to be sworn in. 
6 There are some basic principles that you need to go over regarding use of force and how 
7 you're going to deploy. There are specialized units. But you need to have 
8 accountability. If you are bringing in, I believe --looking back, we probably brought in 
9 about somewhere between 1,200 and 1,400 outside police officers. We have to know 
10 where those officers are and what they're doing. 
11 So we started --so I started to take Protective Services Bureau resources, as well 
12 as the chief's staff, to set up operations adjacent to headquarters building, specifically lot 
13 16, so that we could have a check-in procedure for those units so they could stage 
14 vehicles. We know from previous large scale events, for example, the Navy yard, one of 
15 the things that can happen is if you have hundreds of resources coming in and you don't 
16 stage them appropriately, now you lock up the whole campus. Nobody can move 
17 because you got cars here, fire trucks there, ambulance. It has to be done in an orderly 
18 fashion. 
19 So I started staging those resources and coordinating with FBI as well as 
20 Metropolitan. I had several conversations with Chief Contee throughout that time 
21 period, during that --during the peak of what I would say were the breaches during that 
22 day. So coordinating those outside resources. 
23 And then I also pivoted to coordinating, how do we go to our plan B? We have 
24 rehearsed or practiced and trained to have alternative locations and sites set up so that if 
25 Congress decides continuity of government --if they decide that they want to convene  1 somewhere else, I started putting in --or giving direction to put assets and resources in 
2 place so that when that decision was made, we've already enacted those plans. 
Chief Pittman. Is that okay? That's not too far? 
Mr. DiBiase. Uh-uh. 
BY 73 
3 
4 
5 
6 Q In terms of lot 16, did you go there personally or coordinating by phone with 
7 someone over at lot 16? 
8 A No, I did not go there personally. I directed my staff to go there. 
9 Specifically it was Inspector Jeanita Mitchell and Lieutenant Maria Willis. 
10 Q And you talked about that sort of being the place to stage vehicles but also 
11 as the location maybe for swearing in of certain officers. Is that where the D.C. National 
12 Guard ultimately were sworn in before responding, if you know? 
13 A I cannot say that all of the D.C. National Guard was sworn in at that location. 
14 There may have been a large contingent of D.C. National Guard, because D.C. National 
15 Guard came much later. And I don't have the timeline of which groups came when. 
16 But to start the process going, I put the Protective Services Bureau out there. 
17 can tell you they didn't even have appropriate attire. We dress in plain clothes or the 
18 folks that work for us. But they grabbed whatever they could find, police jackets, went 
19 out and set up the tables so that they can track each and every officer that's here. 
20 They're giving the appropriate swearing in and use of force messaging, and then 
21 deploying them, sending them where we need them to go. 
22 Because like we know now, there were breaches on both sides of the buildings 
23 and these folks are inside of the Capitol. So you have to deploy them with your officers. 
24 They don't know the layout of the land. We're telling them to respond to north 
25 barricade. They don't know the north from the south. So how do you communicate  74 
1 with them? You have to have an officer with a radio and so forth. So all of that takes 
2 quite of bit of coordination before you can start deploying those units. So that's what I 
3 started doing in addition to the Protective Services Bureau responsibilities. 
4 Q Were you a part of any conversation or had the opportunity to overhear a 
5 conversation between Chief Sund when he was making a request for the D.C. National 
6 Guard? There's been a lot of it in the press, a 2:30 phone call to DOD officials. I'm just 
7 wondering if you had any visibility into that call. 
8 A I did not. I saw Chief Sund on the phone, but I --no. 
9 Q Okay. If you could just wrap up by --you know, I think you've laid out what 
10 you were doing during much of the breach, during much of the sort of the peak moments 
11 of the attack. How did the rest of your night basically end? 
12 A Chaotic. Bringing in those additional resources. By that time, as the 
13 evening progressed, there was constant communication between myself and the 
14 deputies. At some point, I knew that they were to their safe locations. You're getting 
15 less reports of folks being barricaded. Then the Congress has to make a decision on 
16 whether they're going to reconvene that night or are they going to reconvene here or in 
17 another location. So still putting in resources, assets in place, if they determine they 
18 want to reconvene elsewhere. 
19 But in addition to that, we need to now conduct sweeps and continuously get 
20 these folks out of the building with the help of Metropolitan and all the other law 
21 enforcement agencies. We were able to bring in, I can't tell you how many K-9 teams 
22 from around the region. The FBI helped us out tremendously. 
23 But the Capitol Building, as you know, is a huge building. And we need to search 
24 every square inch where we know these individuals have gone, that they didn't leave any 
25 devices --we had dealt with the bombs all day --behind, so that if and when the Congress  75 
1 does reconvene, they can do so in a safe manner. So we continue to push individuals 
2 out. 
3 There were, I think, 40 --40 or so arrests toward the end of that evening. I can't 
4 remember exactly what time. I do remember sitting with the MPD commander, it was 
5 Jeff Carroll, and --Assistant Chief Carroll and Assistant Chief Morgan Kane in the 
6 commander center. But I can just remember seeing the last of the CDU units pushing 
7 those folks out, down the avenues. And once we concluded the sweeps, the Congress 
8 did convene. And I don't know --I think that could have been 3 in the morning. It 
9 is --that was a long day. So I don't remember the exact time, but they did reconvene 
10 and they reconvened here. 
11 Q And were you still at the command center at the point that they reconvened 
12 to continue the session? 
13 
14 A We were still here, yes. 
Okay. I'm going to now ask if 
15 - I say it always wrong --if she has any questions. 
16 Chief Pittman. I think you're muted. 
17 She's muted. --I said it wrong. 
18 Okay. I just have one question about the kind of towards the 
19 end of the clearing of the Capitol. Did you have any interaction with or remember who 
20 in particular you interacted with from DOJ or the Bureau or DHS for any matters, anyone 
21 stand out at you? 
22 Mr. DiBiase. _, it's a hill hard to hear. I don't know, something maybe 
23 with your mike. We're having --a little hard hearing you. We cranked it up too. 
24 
25 Let me see. Can you hear me now? 
Mr. DiBiase. That's definitely better, like, leaning in maybe.  76 
BY 1 
2 Q I just want to ask if you have any sense of who took over kind of leading the 
3 coordination to clear the Capitol. Was it your sense that Federal agencies were taking 
4 that role or was Capitol Police in charge? 
5 A No. It was definitely Capitol Police. I assigned, and I don't think he was 
6 deputy chief at the time, but it was Jason Bell. 
7 
8 
9 Mr. DiBiase. He was not. 
Chief Pittman. He was not. Okay. 
So it was Inspector Jason Bell that coordinated with the individuals that we had 
10 from the Federal asset. So I believe Steve D'Antonio(ph), and I know I'm probably 
11 royally messing up his last name. Steve came up, was in the command center. We 
12 probably had some ATF representative. And I don't remember --I work with Steve all 
13 the time, so that's why I know he was there. But there were some other Federal 
14 agencies that came up and offered their assistance. But Jason Bell was the lead 
15 coordinator, along with our Capitol Police assets, our dogs going over and participating in 
16 those sweeps. 
17 Q So it's your understanding that Jason Bell was coordinating with those DOJ, 
18 FBI, ATF reps on the ground? 
19 
20 A 
Q He was. 
Okay. That's great. I'd been wondering who that person was, so I 
21 appreciate you identifying him. 
22 I don't have anything else, -
23 Thank you again for your time. I know this is probably the --multiple times 
24 you've testified about this issue. 
25 Chief Pittman. Thank you.  1 Great. 
2 My last question is if there's anything that we didn't ask you that you wanted to 
3 share with the committee. 
4 Chief Pittman. Nothing that I can think of. 
5 With that, we very much thank you for your time and your 
6 frankness in speaking with us. 
7 Have a good afternoon, everyone. 
8 
9 Chief Pittman. All right. You too. 
[Whereupon, at 4:04 p.m., the interview was concluded.] 77  1 
2 
3 Certificate of Deponent/Interviewee 
4 I have read the foregoing __ pages, which contain the correct transcript of the 
5 answers made by me to the questions therein recorded. 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 Witness Name 
Date 78 