 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 30, 2022  
The Honorable Jonathan Meyer      
General Counsel  
U.S. Department of Homeland Security  
Washington, DC, 20528  
 
Dear Mr. Meyer : 
 
The Select Committee has concluded its hearings, released its  Report  and will very soon 
be dissolved.  The Committee has enormous respect for the Secret Service and its agents, and we 
write now to address the disposition of Committee interview transcripts for certain U.S. Secret 
Service personnel.   
  
At the outset of our investigation, the Committee recognized the legitimate longstanding 
limits the Secret Service has imposed on interviews or depositions of its agents.  We also 
recognized the significant potential ramifications for the Secret Service’s mission that would be 
caused by any detailed disclosure of the means employed by the Service in its protective 
operations.  
  
As our investigation progressed, it became clear that additional interviews of certain 
Secret Service agents and personnel would be necessary for multiple reasons.  For example, our 
investigation uncovered substantial intelligence information, circulated by other agencies to the 
White House and Secret Service, that  a number of  President Trump’s supporters had prepared in 
advance to engage in violent action on January 6th and were specifically targeting the U.S. 
Capitol.  These documents suggested that those in the White House, including the President, 
Chief of Staff, and Deputy Chief of Staff, should have had more than sufficient information to 
cancel the President’s Jan uary 6th Ellipse rally.  The intelligence was also more than sufficient to 
warrant the cancellation of the President’s plan to instruct his supporters to march to the 
Capitol.  Likewise, Secret Service agents had important testimony regarding President Trump’s 
desire to participate personally at the Capitol in the effort to overturn the election.  
  
Last summer, we were very disappointed to learn that text messages on many Secret 
Service phones had been deleted in the weeks after January 6th.  This ultimately hindered certain 
aspects of our investigation.  That said, after that discovery, you and your team stepped forward  The Honorable Jonathan Meyer  
Page 2 
 
to provide unprecedented cooperation with the Select Committee.  This allowed us to fully 
understand what intelligence was ava ilable  to the White House.  We wish to extend our thanks 
for that cooperation.  
  
Beginning last August, our staff began working with your team to obtain and 
comprehensively review a significant amount of intelligence and other information available to 
the Secret Service.  Following that review, we conducted several additional interviews of Secret 
Service personnel.  We also interviewed Mr. Tony  Ornato, who resigned from the Secret Service 
last summer and served as President Trump’s Deputy White House Chief of Staff on January 6th. 
  
In each of our interviews, Secret Service lawyers participated and made clear that the transcripts:  
  
include information and records covered under the Privacy Act, personnel and other 
personal privacy information, for -official -use-only information, intelligence and law 
enforcement sensitive records, and raw intelligence information.  
  
Secret Service lawyers also explained as follows:  
  
While the Secret Service and the Department have made this information and records 
available, w e continue to assert that such information and records and any discussion 
of such information and records  during the course of  this transcribed interview is not 
intended for public release …This transcript and any attachments are protected from 
further dis semination to the same extent as the documents and information they are 
based on.  
  
Many of the facts developed in these interviews are important; we have summarized them 
in our final report without revealing any Secret Service operational details or priva te information 
regarding any agent.  We have also redacted other witness transcripts that would have disclosed 
that information.  In addition to operational details, certain private attorneys for Secret Service 
witnesses requested that  particular private  details in interview transcripts be withheld from public 
disclosure.  Although this information has some relevance to the public, we have honored that 
request as well – including when those same private details appear in other non -Secret Service 
transcripts .  
  
Since its outset, the Committee has intended to make as much of the information developed 
by the investigation public as reasonably possible.  Because Mr.  Ornato’s  November 2022 
transcript addressed a range of intelligence information important to the Committee’s 
conclusions about January 6th, and because Mr.  Ornato  was not functioning as a Secret Service 
agent on January 6th, the Committee decided to release his No vember 2022 transcript.  Please  The Honorable Jonathan Meyer  
Page 3 
 
note that we made significant redactions specifically to address concerns identified by the Secret 
Service.  
  
As of next  week  when the Committee dissolves, the Committee will no longer exercise 
control over this material, an d thus cannot ensure enforcement of the agreements to maintain the 
confidentiality of any of these transcripts and related security information.  Pursuant to long -
standing House rules, the official records of the Committee will be archived and pass in to the 
control of the National Archives. We fully share the Department’s concern for the safety, 
security and reputation of our witnesses and the security information vital to the protection of 
USSS protectees and employees.  
 
In coordination with the office of  the Speaker of the House, to comply with House rules 
and to honor our commitment to best provide for continuing confidentiality of operational details 
and private information, we are hereby providing those transcripts to the Department now for 
appropriate  review , timely return,  and designation of instructions for proper handling  by the 
Archives .  During your review, we recommend that the Department provide for the official file 
that will reside with the Archives any necessary written guidance regarding the  need for 
limitations on release or other sensitivities . Our expectation is  that the transcripts with such 
instructions will become part of the historical record of our investigation maintained by the 
National Archives.      
  
Thank you again for your assis tance with our investigation.  We are grateful for your 
assistance in carrying out this important security task.  
 
      Sincerely,  
 
 
 
 
Bennie G. Thompson       Liz Cheney  
Chairman        Vice Chair  
 
cc: Mr. Jackson Eaton  
 
