Christopher C. Miller 
Former Acting Secretary of Defense of the United States of America 
(9 November 2020 -20 January 2021) 
Statement for 
Committee on Oversight and Reform 
U.S. House of Representatives 
117th Congress of the United States 
12 May 2021 
Chairwoman Maloney and Members of this Committee, the January 6, 2021 attack on the 
Capitol was unconscionable. I'm grateful for the opportunity to provide needed context and 
insights to this Committee- this is LONG overdue. 
I served as the Acting Secretary of Defense that day and, as such, I was ultimately 
responsible for Department of Defense support to local and federal law enforcement agencies, 
and, more specifically, for approving the mobilization and deployment of the District of 
Columbia National Guard at the request of our local and federal partners who held primary 
responsibility for safeguarding the Vice President, the Members of Congress, and the Capitol 
complex. 
General Mark A. Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and I had been closely 
monitoring civil disturbances in the United States since I assumed the position of Secretary of 
Defense on November 9 from former Secretary Mark Esper. Chairman Milley had been 
intimately monitoring these matters for the Department since the summer 2020 demonstrations in 
Washington following the murder of George Floyd. 
Before addressing the specific events on and leading up to January 6, I believe it useful to 
provide the Committee with an overview of my military background and government service. 
L Background 
My first career was in the United States Army. I enlisted in the Army Reserve in 1983 at 
the age of 17. I transferred to the Army National Guard while attending George Washington 
University and was an enlisted Military Policemen in the District of Columbia Army National 
Guard before receiving an Army ROTC scholarship. After graduating college and receiving my 
commission, I became an Infantry officer and, following a year on the Demilitarized Zone in 
Korea, I spent a four-year tour in the 3rd United States Infantry Regiment (The Old Guard), the  Statement of Former Acting Secretary of Defense Christopher C. Miller 
House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and Reform 
May 12, 2021 
Army unit responsible for augmenting civilian law enforcement in the Military District of 
Washington during civil disturbances. That service required a deep knowledge of those types of 
matters and extensive training. I subsequently tried out for, and was accepted into, the Army 
Special Forces and spent the next 21 years serving as a Green Beret. I served in Bosnia, 
Afghanistan and Iraq -in all three places I was involved in addressing riots and civil disorder -
as well as serving in numerous other locations throughout the world. I led units in combat in 
Afghanistan in 2001-2002 and 2004-2005 and Iraq in 2003 and 2006-2007. I served in the 
Pentagon from 2010-2013 where I was responsible for matters involving Irregular Warfare. I 
retired in 2014 as a full Colonel having served in the Army in some capacity for 31 years. 
Following my retirement from the Army, I supported the U.S. Special Operations 
Command as a civilian contractor at the Pentagon. In 2016, I resumed my government service 
and held a position responsible for monitoring Intelligence Oversight compliance in the 
Department of Defense. In 2018, I was loaned to the National Security Council, eventually 
becoming Senior Director and Special Assistant to the President for Counterterrorism and 
Transnational Threats. During that time, I was responsible for producing the President's 
"National Strategy for Counterterrorism" which included for the first time Domestic Terrorism 
as a priority threat that needed to be addressed. I was on duty at the White House during the El 
Paso Walmart attack on August 3, 2019. In December 2019 I accepted an appointment to serve 
in the Pentagon in Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict which allowed me to continue 
our nation's war against Al Qaida -my reason for accepting the position. I was subsequently 
nominated by the President and unanimously confirmed by the Senate to serve as the Director of 
the National Counterterrorism Center. On November 9, 2020, I was designated as the Acting 
Secretary of Defense following Mark Esper's departure, and I served in that position until 
January 20, 2021. After leaving the government in January, I co-founded Boundary Channel 
Partners, a consulting company providing a range of strategic advisory and consultative services. 
I also remain active in continuing to give voice on behalf of the members of our Armed Forces, 
including veterans and their families, who I believe are all too often overlooked by our 
government, by serving as the Executive Director of the Special Operations Association of 
America. 
2  Statement of Former Acting Secretary of Defense Christopher C. Miller 
House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and Reform 
May 12, 2021 
II. Events leading to January 6 
On December 31, 2020, Washington, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser sent a written request 
to Major General William J. Walker, Commanding General of the D.C. National Guard, seeking 
unarmed National Guard support to the D.C. Metropolitan Police Department and D.C. Fire and 
Emergency Medical Services for planned demonstrations scheduled for 5 and 6 January. The 
Director of the D.C. Homeland Security and Emergency Management Agency provided 
additional specifics regarding Mayor Bower's request to General Walker. Because the District 
of Columbia is not a state, its mayor needs Presidential approval to use the D.C. National Guard, 
unlike state governors who can unilaterally mobilize their National Guard forces. The President 
had delegated his authority in this regard to the Secretary of Defense. The Army has day-to-day 
interaction with and operational-level oversight of the D.C. National Guard when it is providing 
support in an Active Duty capacity ( as opposed to "drill" status on weekends or for Annual 
Training). As such, the request was first transmitted from General Walker to the Secretary of 
Army and then relayed to me. 
Over the following weekend, the Secretary of the Army, Ryan D. McCarthy, and the 
Army Chief of Staff, General James C. Mcconville, reviewed Mayor Bowser's request and 
presented it to me and Chairman Milley on Monday, January 4, 2021. I formally approved the 
request that morning and conveyed it to the Secretary of the Army. The Secretary of the Army 
further confirmed the approval of this support to the Deputy Attorney General of the United 
States. I will add that over the weekend, I had several conference calls with Department of 
Defense leadership and had informed them that I was planning to approve the request but would 
not do so formally until the concept of the operation -the plan -was finalized. 
In the days leading up to the January 6 Electoral College certification, Department of 
Defense personnel monitored and met regularly to review the situation relating to the planned 
demonstrations and potential disturbances locally and nationwide relating to those 
demonstrations. A principal concern for the Department of Defense was the apparent lack of 
coordination, synchronization, and information exchange with and between the numerous 
domestic law enforcement organizations having primary jurisdiction and responsibility over such 
matters in the District. To properly provide military support to those agencies, it is necessary to 
3  Statement of Former Acting Secretary of Defense Christopher C. Miller 
House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and Reform 
May 12, 2021 
confer, coordinate and synchronize with, among others: the D.C. Metropolitan Police 
Department; the Metro Transit Police; the Capitol Police; U.S. Department of Homeland 
Security; U.S. Department of Justice (including the FBI); U.S. Department of the Interior; the 
U.S. Marshals Service, Federal Protective Services; the U.S. Secret Service and the U.S. Park 
Police. 
The Department of Defense was very mindful of lessons learned from its experience 
providing support to local and federal law enforcement during the June 2020 protests near the 
White House and elsewhere in Washington in the aftermath of George Floyd's murder. One 
lesson was the need for close coordination with partner agencies because our military personnel 
and resources must be limited to playing a supporting role to the primary law enforcement 
entities and only involved in certain situations with well-defined responsibilities. 
On January 3 and 4, I convened Cabinet-level calls -these calls were held in addition to 
numerous lower-level coordination discussions and meetings -with the purpose of: 
(1) Ensuring that all agencies involved were operating from a common picture 
concerning the potential threats and our agencies' respective roles and responsibilities in 
response to such threats; 
(2) Understanding who would be in charge of any response and presence; 
(3) Confirming that the appropriate local and federal law enforcement organizations 
understood that the Department of Defense was standing by to provide any appropriate 
support requested. 
The assessment by domestic law enforcement components was that there would be up to 
35,000 generally peaceful demonstrators located at 10 locations interspersed with small groups 
who would likely attempt to incite violence. Essentially, domestic law enforcement expected a 
replay of demonstrations that had occurred in Washington in November and December 2020 
with generally peaceful protests during the day and, at the onset of darkness, small fighting cells 
conducting acts of violence. The contemplated use of National Guard personnel in static 
positions such as for traffic control would free credentialed law enforcement officers to respond 
to similar outbreaks of violence or unexpected contingencies. The National Guard did not and 
does not have the authority to arrest people. Mayor Bowser's request clearly reiterated that 
limitation. I also want to highlight that we in the Department of Defense voiced our concern 
4  Statement of Former Acting Secretary of Defense Christopher C. Miller 
House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and Reform 
May 12, 2021 
about the permitted demonstration on the Capitol grounds, but we did not have the legal 
authority, and rightfully so, to deny or cancel the permits. 
I want to be VERY clear-it is NOT and was NOT the role of the Department of 
Defense to convene these sorts of interagency and intergovernmental meetings or calls 
concerning domestic law enforcement matters. I want to repeat that point -it is not in the best 
interests of the citizens of the United States, our Armed Forces or our constitutional form of 
government for the Department of Defense to take a lead role in organizing a domestic law 
enforcement response. But I felt it was my responsibility to initiate these discussions given my 
sense that these efforts and coordination were not tightly wired at that point. 
My concerns regarding the appropriate and limited use of the military in domestic matters 
were heightened by commentary in the media about the possibility of a military coup or that 
advisors to the President were advocating the declaration of martial law. I was also cognizant of 
the fears promulgated by many about the prior use of the military in the June 2020 response to 
protests near the White House and fears that the President would invoke the Insurrection Act to 
politicize the military in an anti-democratic manner. And, just before the Electoral College 
certification, ten former Secretaries of Defense signed an Op-Ed piece published in the 
Washington Post warning of the dangers of politicizing and using inappropriately the military. 
No such thing was going to occur on my watch but these concerns, and hysteria about 
them, nonetheless factored into my decisions regarding the appropriate and limited use of our 
Armed Forces to support civilian law enforcement during the Electoral College certification. My 
obligation to the Nation was to prevent a constitutional crisis. That, in addition to the limited 
request from the Mayor for D.C. National Guard deployment distanced from the Capitol, is why 
I agreed only to deploy our Soldiers in areas away from the Capitol, avoiding amplifying the 
irresponsible narrative that your Armed Forces were somehow going to be co-opted in an effort 
to overturn the election. But I did not believe, and I think my senior advisors shared this view, 
that January 6, 2021 was going to be "business-as-usual". 
I was also concerned that those seeking to obstruct the Electoral College certification or 
otherwise disrupt our government could provoke a Soldier to act in a way that could be portrayed 
in the media as an attack against demonstrators exercising their First Amendment rights of 
assembly and speech. I was gratified to hear that most counter protestors were apparently 
5  Statement of Former Acting Secretary of Defense Christopher C. Miller 
House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and Reform 
May 12, 2021 
planning to stay off the streets on January 6 to avoid providing a public platform for the right­
wing demonstrators to gain further attention through fighting them. 
I fervently believe the military should not be utilized in such scenarios other than as a last 
resort and only when all other assets have been expended. I am a student of history and the 
Department of Defense has an extremely poor record in supporting domestic law enforcement. 
In the 1960s and 1970s the military was tasked to support domestic officials during civil 
disturbances involving civil rights and anti-Vietnam War demonstrations. And some 51 years 
ago, on May 4, 1970, Ohio National Guard troops fired at demonstrators at Kent State University 
and killed four American civilians. The Church Committee's final report details how these 
initially laudable and necessary efforts became misdirected and resulted in violations of civil 
liberties and tragic deaths. I was committed to avoiding repeating these scenarios. 
III. January 6 
On January 6, 2021, 8,000 local and Federal law enforcement officers were on duty in the 
District of Columbia. I was told during planning sessions leading up to January 6 that such a 
force routinely manages demonstrations well north of 100,000 demonstrators. This is what they 
are trained, equipped, chartered, and expected to do. Other than the request from Mayor Bowser, 
no other local or Federal law enforcement elements or other Departments or Agencies requested 
Department of Defense support prior to the moment the Capitol was on the verge of being 
overrun. 
As I stated earlier, I approved on 4 January Mayor Bowser's request to station D.C. Army 
National Guard troops at 30 traffic control points (TCPs) around the White House and also six 
Metro subway stations. The TCPs were designed to block vehicular traffic from driving into the 
city's core and the designated demonstration sites. Three National Guard Soldiers and one D.C. 
Metropolitan Police Department officer would be stationed at each TCP location. Similarly, four 
National Guard Soldiers along with one D.C. Metropolitan Police Department officer and one 
Metro Transportation officer were assigned to six Metro subway stops. Their purpose was to 
demonstrate a law enforcement presence, direct human and vehicular traffic, monitor crowd 
behavior, and intervene, only ifrequired, in disturbances. Additionally, 40 National Guard 
Soldiers would be located at Joint Base Andrews in Maryland and designated as a Quick 
6  Statement of Former Acting Secretary of Defense Christopher C. Miller 
House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and Reform 
May 12, 2021 
Reaction Force (QRF) to respond to unexpected events or reinforce elements in need. I am 
aware of criticism that the QRF was located 12 miles from the city center, but experience has 
shown they were more capable of effective deployment from a location near an airfield where 
they could be airlifted by helicopter in case the roads or bridges were blocked. I also approved 
the activation of a 20-person specialized element that could detect and monitor chemical, 
biological, radiological and explosive hazards in support of local authorities. All the elements 
would be supported by 52 command and control, logistics and liaison specialists commanded by 
Major General William Walker. In total, I had authorized the deployment of 340 National Guard 
personnel, which was the full amount General Walker determined in his written mission analysis 
was necessary to fulfill Mayor Bowser's request. My order further gave General Walker full 
discretion to employ the QRF to respond quickly as needed based on the situation, subject only 
to the Secretary of the Army's requirement that General Walker provide him with a "concept of 
operations" -a reasonable and normal requirement in deploying a QRF that could be met in a 
matter of seconds with an oral briefing. 
Following the events on January 6, many commentators have mischaracterized my 
instructions and Army Secretary McCarthy's accompanying guidance as somehow contributing 
to the inability of the Guard to respond or even worse, that it somehow enabled the mob to enjoy 
an easy path to the Capitol. That is patently and completely false. We did not "disarm" the 
National Guard-the request from the Mayor was for unarmed support of local law enforcement 
and we authorized the support she and General Walker requested. Leaders of the United States 
military, since the American Revolution, have provided instructions to their subordinate 
commanders and fighting personnel under their command so they understand the nature of the 
operation they are conducting. This guidance amplifies the goal of the mission in a tangible way 
-for instance these instructions address whether the task is to destroy the opponent, deter them, 
or protect the population. That sort of guidance is then translated into "coordinating 
instructions" in the field order prepared by the commanders and leaders conducting the 
operation. Our instructions and guidance provided that clarity and intent to the D.C. National 
Guard underscoring that the purpose of their mission was to support civilian law enforcement in 
a mature, disciplined manner respectful of our Constitution. 
7  Statement of Former Acting Secretary of Defense Christopher C. Miller 
House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and Reform 
May 12, 2021 
Sometime between 1 :00-1 :30 pm on 6 January, I became aware that demonstrators had 
entered the Capitol. At approximately 2:30 pm, I met with General Milley and Secretary 
McCarthy to discuss the situation and the requests Secretary McCarthy had received from Mayor 
Bowser as well as the Capitol Police and the Metropolitan Police Department for additional 
support. It became clear during that meeting that local and federal law enforcement personnel 
were insufficient to address the situation and that the Department of Defense would be required 
to play a much larger role in reestablishing order and maintaining security in Washington, D.C. 
At 3:00 pm, in response to these requests, I approved the activation and mobilization of the full 
D.C. National Guard to assist the Capitol Police and the Metropolitan Police Department. 
According to the timeline, that approval was transmitted by me and relayed by Secretary 
McCarthy at 3:04 pm. The recipients included General Walker. For the remainder of that 
afternoon, both the Secretary of the Army and I had various conversations with the Vice 
President, Members of Congress, and other government agencies, including the White House. 
Those calls are noted and described in various Department of Defense time lines that have been 
prepared and which I know are available to you. 
At 5:22 pm, National Guard personnel arrived at the Capitol and began operations in 
support of domestic law enforcement entities there. Those of you with military experience or 
who understand the nature of military deployments will recognize how rapid our response was. 
I am keenly aware of the criticism regarding the Department of Defense's response to the 
January 6 events at the Capitol. I believe that this criticism is unfounded and reflects 
inexperience with, or a lack of understanding of, the nature of military operations or, worse, that 
it is simply the result of politics. I suspect that much of it is a combination of these factors. I do 
not believe these critics understand the complexities involved in redeploying forces in an urban 
environment and, again, the subordinate role the military must play in the rare instances it is 
necessary to use such forces to support domestic law enforcement agencies. This isn't a video 
game where you can move forces with a flick of the thumb or a movie that glosses over the 
logistical challenges and the time required to coordinate and synchronize with the multitude of 
other entities involved, or with complying with the important legal requirements involved in the 
use of such forces. 
8  Statement of Former Acting Secretary of Defense Christopher C. Miller 
House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and Reform 
May 12, 2021 
I have been in more crisis situations than I can meaningfully recall. I have personally 
been in riots, fist fights and brawls, gun fights, aircraft mishaps, mortared, rocketed, attacked 
with Improvised Explosive Devices and, as a leader, I have commanded forces engaged in the 
most complex and hazardous military activities and operations known to humankind. During 
January 6, I applied lessons I had personally learned over the previous 38 years of my service. 
The first is to stay calm so people around you don't panic because they will take your 
lead. A related lesson was to not get myopic and become trapped "looking-through-the-soda­
straw." Leaders must look up and out. Tactical commanders on the ground are entrusted to 
respond to the reality of the immediate situation. On January 6, 2021, the Department of 
Defense commander closest to the action was the commander of the D.C. National Guard, Major 
General Walker. Our military leaders are trained, educated, and expected to make decisions 
based on the reality they face. Our military, after its experience in Vietnam, empowers ground 
commanders to make decisions instead of seeking guidance and permission. This fundamental 
precept of command makes our Armed Forces the most agile and dominant in the world. The 
approvals issued by me and by Secretary McCarthy on 4 January provided General Walker with 
all the authority he needed to fulfill the mission on 6 January- fully meeting Mayor Bowser's 
request for limited support to domestic law enforcement at numerous locations throughout the 
city, some of which were a significant distance from the Capitol, and adjusting to evolving 
situations as appropriate. Prior to January 6, General Walker did not express any concern about 
the forces he had at his disposal or the authority he enjoyed to direct them as he saw fit to fulfill 
his orders to support Mayor Bowser's limited request. 
The second fundamental I learned the hard way in my military career is that initial reports 
are ALWAYS inaccurate. When humans are in situations involving duress, emotions -
particularly fear -dominate their thinking and how they communicate. This is an inherent factor 
that leaders must consider when making decisions. When you are on the front lines battling for 
your life or facing chaos, like the domestic law enforcement officers at the Capitol the afternoon 
of January 6, your span of control and understanding is reduced. That is why we create 
additional layers of command to ensure that the entire enterprise doesn't focus exclusively on 
one area or problem. There are designated elements, removed from the violence and immediacy 
of close combat, tasked with appraising the larger context. That was my role on January 6 as the 
9  Statement of Former Acting Secretary of Defense Christopher C. Miller 
House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and Reform 
May 12, 2021 
Acting Secretary of Defense. I was paying close attention to the fighting at the Capitol and 
authorizing an appropriate response and support, but I was also considering other potentialities 
and requirements: 
(a) Were reports of explosive devices in the area accurate? 
(b) Was this part of a larger operation -was the attack on the Capitol a "feint" 
for a more significant attack elsewhere? For example, we received reports of a 
plot to bomb the Washington Monument and reports of threats from small 
aircraft. I was also concerned that the Capitol event could trigger other attacks 
elsewhere in the United States and I didn't want to overcommit resources until the 
situation became clearer. 
(c) Would our foreign enemies take advantage of the situation? 
Good leaders slow things down to plan and then brief their Soldiers, ultimately saving 
time and lives: assembling Soldiers; equipping them correctly; conducting an abbreviated 
planning session and briefing all those involved with their task, mission, purpose, limits and 
rules of engagement; coordinating and synchronizing with the police and other domestic 
agencies on the ground to guarantee the National Guard's movement supported their efforts; 
moving them from their assembly point to the appropriate location and deputizing them by a 
civilian law enforcement official prior to employing them, which is not merely some symbolic 
exercise, all takes time. I was committed to supporting our partners and protecting the Capitol 
and the individuals under attack, but it needed to be executed properly. I also had a 
responsibility to the members of our Armed Forces and their families to make sure that when I 
sent them into difficult situations, I sent them in with a plan to not only succeed but that would 
spare them unnecessary exposure and spare everyone the consequences of poor planning or 
execution. And this was all occurring in an atmosphere of, to quote von Clausewitz, "fog and 
friction" that makes the seemingly easy unimaginably difficult. We appreciated the seriousness 
of the situation, but we did not want to piece-meal National Guard forces into the zone of 
conflict. Our arrival needed to impress upon the mob that the situation had fundamentally 
changed with the arrival of disciplined, organized and overwhelming strength so that the balance 
of power had decisively shifted back in favor of the forces of order and it was in their best 
interest to give up and give up quickly. 
Again, anyone familiar with the culture, nature and practices of the military, and the 
character of military operations in urban environments would understand the enormous  Statement of Former Acting Secretary of Defense Christopher C. Miller 
House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and Reform 
May 12, 2021 
accomplishment of the D.C. National Guard and Army leadership in responding so effectively 
and quickly that afternoon. As General Milley correctly assessed the military's response that 
day, the Department of Defense responded at "sprint speed." 
I also want to address questions that have been raised in regard to the President's 
involvement in the response. He had none with respect to the Department of Defense efforts on 
January 6. On January 3, in a meeting at the White House with the President and several others 
regarding numerous unrelated topics, the Mayor's request for National Guard support was 
discussed for less than a minute. The President said to give the Mayor the support she requested. 
I will reiterate that we were already committed to giving that support and the matter was not 
discussed that evening ( or at any time) in the context of seeking or needing the President's 
approval. 
On the afternoon of January 5, I received a call from the President in connection with a 
rally by his supporters that day at Freedom Plaza. The President asked if I was watching the 
event on television. I replied that I had seen coverage of the event. He then commented that 
"they" were going to need 10,000 troops the following day. The call lasted fewer than thirty 
seconds and I did not respond substantively, and there was no elaboration. I took his comment to 
mean that a large force would be required to maintain order the following day. At the time, I had 
been advised by our domestic law enforcement partners that based on their experience with 
protests and crowd control, as well as their intelligence information, that they were confident that 
they had sufficient personnel assigned to maintain order. More specifically, the National Guard 
had been providing, and were committed to continue to provide, the support requested by Mayor 
Bowser. I am unaware of any briefing or any other discussions the President may have had with 
any other government officials or his advisors regarding law enforcement preparations for 
January 6. 
My recollection is that White House personnel, including White House counsel and the 
Chief of Staff, but not the President, participated in some of the multi-agency calls on January 6 
convened to organize and coordinate the response to the events at the Capitol after the mob 
entered the Capitol building. I do not recall any specific remarks they made, if any, during those 
calls. Those calls are reflected in the various timelines available to you. 
11  Statement of Former Acting Secretary of Defense Christopher C. Miller 
House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and Reform 
May 12, 2021 
I have been asked by the media whether I believe the President was responsible for the 
events that occurred on January 6. I stand by my prior observation that I personally believe his 
comments encouraged the protestors that day, but I am not in a position to make an official 
assessment of his responsibility and, regardless, it was not relevant to the decisions I made on 6 
January or my subsequent decisions continuing to my departure from the Department of Defense 
of 20 January 2021. I leave further analysis and assessment of those issues to the appropriate 
government bodies, the media, and the electorate. 
I stand behind EVERY decision I made that day and the ones I made in the days 
following January 6. Our Nation's Armed Forces are to be deployed for domestic law 
enforcement only when all civilian assets are expended and ONLY as the absolute last resort. 
To use them for domestic law enforcement in any other manner is contrary to the Constitution 
and a threat to the Republic. 
I know that many fine men and women serving on the front lines on January 6, 2021 with 
domestic law enforcement agencies did their best to protect the Capitol and the individuals who 
were in harm's way from a lawless and ignorant mob acting contrary to nearly two and a half 
centuries of peaceful and respectful transfers of power under our Constitution. 
I'm enormously proud of those National Guard Soldiers and airmen who selflessly 
answered the call on January 6, 2021 and in the subsequent weeks to support domestic law 
enforcement and our Constitution. Watching them, talking to them, listening to them and trying 
to support them as best I could remain the high points of my term as the Acting Secretary of 
Defense. They are America's treasure and our true Patriots. We must be worthy of their selfless 
service and sacrifice. 
12 