Submitted to: 
Chairperson: 
Vice-Chairperson: 
Members: 
Submitted by: 
Brief Biography: Statement for the Record 
Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United 
States Capitol, U. S. House of Representatives, March 31, 2022. 
The Honorable Bennie Thompson. 
The Honorable Liz Cheney. 
The Honorable Zoe Lofgren, The Honorable Elaine Luria, The Honorable 
Adam Schiff, The Honorable Pete Aguilar, The Honorable Stephanie 
Murphy, The Honorable Jamie Raskin, and The Honorable Adam 
Kinzinger. 
Dr. Jennifer Mercieca, Professor, Department of Communication, Texas 
A&M University. 
Dr. Jennifer Mercieca is an award-winning Professor in the Department of Communication at 
Texas A&M University. She is an expert in American political discourse, especially as it relates 
to citizenship, democracy, propaganda, and the presidency. Jennifer has published 
three books: Founding Fictions, The Rhetoric of Heroic Expectations: Establishing the Obama 
Presidency, and Demagogue for President: The Rhetorical Genius of Donald Trump. 
Her academic scholarship has been published in The Quarterly Journal of Speech, Presidential 
Studies Quarterly, Rhetoric & Public Affairs, Argumentation & Advocacy, and Rhetoric Society 
Quarterly. She is a member of the Editorial Boards for The Quarterly Journal of Speech, Rhetoric 
Society Quarterly, Southern Communication Journal, Rhetoric & Public Affairs, and the Texas A&M 
University Press. She is a Contributing Editor for Z6calo, the Public Square. She has written 
public scholarship and been interviewed about rhetoric and politics for media outlets 
throughout the United States and Worldwide. 
In 2020 she authored Demagogue for President: The Rhetorical Genius of Donald Trump. It was 
reviewed in the Washington Post, which said, "it deserves a place alongside George Orwell's 
'Politics and the English Language' and Harry G. Frankfurt's 'On Bulls---.' It's a brilliant 
dissertation on Trump's patented brand of balderdash. That makes it one of the most important 
political books of this perilous summer." Reviews in Politico and Salon called the book a "must 
read" and "highly recommended." The Association of American Publishers awarded 
Demagogue for President a 2021 PROSE Award for Excellence in Social Sciences: Government & 
Politics. The book is also a Foreword Indies Winner, earning a Bronze medal in the category of 
Political & Social Sciences. She is a 2016 recipient of the Texas A&M Association of Former 
Students Distinguished Achievement Award in Teaching, the highest student award given to 
faculty for teaching at Texas A&M University. 
1  Former President Donald Trump uses anti-democratic language, which threatens American 
democracy. 
Former President Donald John Trump communicates like a dangerous demagogue does.1 A 
dangerous demagogue is a political leader who uses anti-democratic language and refuses to be 
held accountable for their words and/ or actions. Political accountability is necessary because 
rhetoric and political power are so easily abused. Unaccountable leaders are dangerous in any 
position of power, but especially in government. 
Communication can be used to facilitate and strengthen democracy, or it can be used as a 
weapon to destroy it. There are legal standards defining protected political speech, but 
communication that meets the minimum legal standard may not necessarily help to build and 
maintain democracy. Communication that helps to build trust, diminish conflict, and solve 
political problems strengthens democracy; communication that damages trust, increases 
conflict, and prevents problem solving destroys it. Democracy-building language uses 
persuasion as a method of decision-making and cooperation. Democracy-destroying language 
uses persuasion as force (as propaganda) and as a technique of control. 
Democracy ought to be the weighing mechanism by which we judge the quality, 
appropriateness, and value of political communication because in America -where we consider 
our government a democracy-whether or not a political candidate or leader's rhetoric 
promotes and protects democracy is the most fundamental quality in assessing their fitness for 
office. By this standard President Trump is unfit for political office. 
Below I draw from research I've conducted on President Trump's communication strategies to 
explain how he uses anti-democratic language in ways that make it difficult to hold him 
accountable for his dangerous speech. Trump is an aggressive, relentless, irresponsible, and 
defiant political communicator who uses coercion rather than persuasion and wields language 
as a weapon. Trump uses threats, attacks, conspiracy theory, evasion, and lies to avoid 
accountability. Trump uses these same strategies to subvert and delegitimize democracy.2 
President Trump used anti-democratic language to win the 2016 election. 
President Trump used anti-democratic language during his 2016 presidential election 
campaign. An important part of the story of Trump's campaign is the context within which it 
succeeded: a citizenry so fractured that the nation was in crisis. The 2016 electorate had an 
historic and dangerous crisis of distrust, polarization, and frustration that made the nation 
vulnerable. 
Distrust: According to a 2015 Pew Research poll, "only 19% of Americans today say they can 
trust the government in Washington to do what is right." Pew reported that Americans' trust in 
their government had been declining since 2007. This widespread distrust represented "the 
longest period of low trust in government in more than 50 years."3 
Polarization: A June 12, 2014, Pew Research Center report found that "Republicans and 
Democrats are more divided along ideological lines-and partisan antipathy is deeper and 
more extensive-than at any point in the last two decades."4 
2  Frustration: In 2014 and 2015, Gallup found that Americans thought that government was the 
11 most important problem facing this country today" -it was the second biggest problem in 
2016. Gallup also found that only 33 percent of Americans were "satisfied with the way the US 
is governed." Frustration with government was linked to political polarization: a June 2016 Pew 
survey found that 57 percent of Republicans were "frustrated" by Democrats and 58 percent of 
Democrats were "frustrated" by Republicans. According to a Real Clear Politics survey on the 
eve of the election, 62.3 percent of Americans thought that the nation was on the "wrong 
track."5 
A pro-democracy political candidate would have used democracy-building language to try to 
increase trust, decrease polarization, and ameliorate frustration to strengthen the nation. 
President Trump did the opposite. 
Within a crisis of public trust in which the very viability of democracy was at risk, Trump ran a 
campaign that was designed to increase distrust for government and traditional leadership. 
Within a crisis of polarization in which Americans believed that they had little common ground 
with their political opposition, did not share the same values, and that their opposition was an 
enemy of the state, Trump ran a campaign that was designed to increase polarization. Within a 
crisis of frustration in which Americans believed that government was the biggest issue facing 
the nation, that the nation was on the wrong track, and that anybody else would do a better job 
running the country than current leaders, Trump ran a campaign that was designed to increase 
frustration. Trump's campaign strategy of increasing distrust, polarization, and frustration was 
designed to take advantage of a vulnerable nation that was already weakened. In so doing, 
President Trump attacked America's public sphere and its democratic process. 
Yet, like the Wizard of Oz telling Dorothy to "pay no attention to that man behind the curtain," 
President Trump told us repeatedly not to pay attention to the way that he communicated. He 
trivialized people's concerns about his language strategies by calling those concerns mere 
11 political correctness," or complaining that people were policing his "tone," or that women 
were trying to control how real men talk, or that such criticisms were just a part of the rigged 
system that was trying to destroy his campaign. 6 Trump told us that his anti-democratic 
language didn't matter. His language did matter. 
President Trump used seven anti-democratic language strategies throughout his 2016 
campaign. Three of the strategies unified Trump with his target audience: ad populum (praising 
the wisdom of the crowd), paralipsis (I'm not saying; I'm just saying), and American 
exceptionalism (America's unique status among other nations in the world, here conveyed as 
American greatness). Four of the strategies divided Trump from his opponents: ad hominem 
(attacking the person instead of their argument), ad baculum (threats of force or intimidation), 
reification (treating people as objects), and conspiracy (a self-sealing narrative). The sum total of 
these seven strategies was to unify his followers against his opponents and to make Trump the 
center of all political decisions. Whether or not a person supported Trump became an important 
"heuristic cue" which led Americans to make political choices based upon their allegiance to 
one man. (see Appendix A for definitions of the rhetorical terms) 
Most of the strategies that President Trump relied upon in his 2016 presidential campaign are 
technically fallacies -errors of argumentation and rhetoric that would typically disqualify a 
3  speaker, denying them the standing to continue in a formal debate. Trump used these strategies 
defiantly to take advantage of historic and crisis levels of distrust, polarization, and 
frustration-all democracy endangering qualities in an electorate-to win. Taken together, 
these seven strategies violated the norms of democratic political discourse. 
President Trump routinely uses these seven strategies (and more) to attract and redirect our 
attention, heighten polarization, threaten, bully, and silence his opposition, and avoid 
accountability. In my book Demagogue for President, I analyzed eighteen situations in which 
President Trump used these strategies to his advantage. I want to focus here on how he used 
these strategies in two ways relevant to the January 6th Committee investigation: how Trump 
used anti-democratic language in his 2016 campaign to avoid accountability (Example A) and 
how Trump used anti-democratic language to spread dangerous lies in ways that made it 
difficult to hold him accountable for his words and actions (Example B). These two examples 
are representative of his larger communication patterns and strategies. 
Example A: President Trump denied he sent the tweet he sent, September 30-October 10, 2016. 
This example shows President Trump using ad hominem (attacking the person), tu quoque 
(appeal to hypocrisy), and ad baculum (threats of force or intimidation) in a tweet on September 
30, 2016. Moderator Anderson Cooper asked Trump about the tweet during the second 
presidential debate and if he thought it showed "good leadership and discipline." Trump 
avoided directly answering the question, preventing himself from being held accountable for 
his tweet by deploying denial, ad hominem (attacking the person), paralipsis (I'm not saying; I'm 
just saying), red herring (distraction), conspiracy (a self-sealing narrative), and ad populum 
(appeal to the wisdom of the crowd). 
Trump Tweet, September 30, 2016 
Ad hominem (attacking the person). Tu quoque (appeal to hypocrisy). Ad baculum (threats/ 
intimidatio 
"Did Crooked Hillary help disgusting (check out sex tape and past) Alicia M become a U.S. 
citizen so she could use her in the debate?"7 
4  .... Donald J. TrumpO 
,:!realDonaldTrump J..+ Follow 
Did Crooked Hillary help disgusting (check out 
sex tape and past) Alicia M become a U.S. 
citizen so she could use her in the debate? 
REN.£ETS LIKES 
792 1,484 
2.30 AM -30 Sep 2016 
t.1-792 1.5K 
Second Presidential Debate, October 10, 20168 
Cooper: "Mr. Trump, let me follow-up with you. In 2008, you wrote in one of your books that 
the most important characteristic of a good leader is discipline. You said if a leader doesn't have 
it, quote 'he or she won't be one for long.' In the days after the first debate, you sent out a series 
of tweets from 3:00 AM. to 5:00 AM. Including one that told people to II check out a sex tape." 
Is that the kind of discipline ... " 
Denial of an accurate fact. Paralipsis (I'm not saying). Ad hominem (attack the person) 
~ 
Trump: "No, it wasn't 'check out a sex tape.' It was '-=ta""'k~e~=~=.::...=.:::...+:==..:c..=:.c::::..==:...=~to:c....::::b..::::e 
this wonderful, uh, girl scout, who was no girl scout'." 
Cooper: "You mentioned 'sex tape'." 
5  Trump: "Just so you understand: When she said 3 o'clock in the 
morning, take a look at Benghazi. She said who is going to answer the 
call at 3 o'clock in the morning, guess what? She didn't answer. Becaus 
when ambassador Stevens --she said she was awake of at 3:00 in the 
morning. And she al~so~se~n~t~a~tw~e~et~OQ:UITtt.aJl.3..~~ek-irrtmmlOimi~~ill~ 
won't mention that. But he said she will be awake, the famous t ng 
'we're going to answer the call at 3:00 in the morning. Guess 
happened, Ambassador Stevens, Ambassador Stevens sent 00 re uests 
for help and the onl one she talked to was Sidne Blu 
her friend and not a good guy, by the way. So, she shouldn't be talking 
about that. Now, tweeting happens to be a modern a 
communication. You can like it or not. Between Facebook and Twitter, I 
have 25 million people. It's a very effective way of communication. ~ 
you can put it down, but it's an effective form of communication. I'm 
not unproud of it to be honest with you." Ignores correction & 
pivots with a red 
herring ( distraction) & 
unrelated attack. 
Paralipsis (I'm not 
saying; I'm just saying). 
Conspiracy (self-sealing 
narrative that cannot be 
disproved). 
Ad hominem (personal 
attack). 
Bolstering with ad 
populum (appeal to the 
wisdom of the crowd). 
President Trump overwhelmed the debate moderator by using six different accountability­
avoiding strategies rather than directly answer the question about his tweet and what it said 
about his leadership abilities. He used anti-democratic language to deny the truth, shift our 
attention, attack an unrelated issue, spread conspiracy, undermine legitimate political 
opposition, and praise himself and his followers. Trump finished by defending Twitter as a 
method of communication, which was off-topic and unrelated to the central issue of the 
question (which was if the manner in which Trump used his Twitter account demonstrated 
good leadership'). These are all aggressive anti-democratic language strategies that are 
deployed to make it very difficult to hold him accountable for his words and actions. 
Example B: President Trump spread conspiracy about Ted and Rafael Cruz, May 3, 2016. 
During the 2016 presidential campaign, President Trump circulated unverified tabloid rumors 
and conspiracy (a self-sealing narrative) to attack his Republican primary opponent Senator Ted 
Cruz and his father Rafael Cruz, then used paralipsis (I'm not saying; I'm just saying) to deny 
responsibility for the attack. Trump continued to circulate the conspiracy theory to attack Cruz 
even after he said that he didn't believe it. 
6  Donald J. TrumpO 
@real DonaldTrump ~• Follow 
"@ResisTyr : Mr.Trump ... BOTH Cruz AND 
Rubio are ineligible to be POTUS! It's a SLAM 
DUNK CASE!! Check it! 
powderedwigsociety.com/elig ibility-of ... " 
On February 20, 2016 Trump retweeted "BOTH Cruz AND Rubio are ineligible to be POTUS! 
It's a SLAM DUNK CASE!! Check it!"9 The tweet included a link to a story from the Powdered 
Wig Society that showed an unnamed lawyer explaining how Senators Marco Rubio and Ted 
Cruz could not become president because they were not "natural born citizens" of the United 
States. 
Trump appeared the next morning on ABC News' This Week, where George Stephanopoulos 
asked Trump about his retweet.10 
Stephanopoulos: "You actually sent out a retweet yesterday suggesting that Marco Rubio might 
be ineligible to be president- a tweet that said both Cruz and Rubio are ineligible to be 
President of the United States. Do you really believe that?" 
Parali sis (I'm not saying). Conspiracy (self-sealing narrative). Ad populum (appeal to the 
wisdo of the crowd) 
Trump: "Well, it was a retweet. I mea 
looked at it, George. I honestly have never oked at it. As somebody said, he's not [eligible]. 
And I retweeted it. I have 14 million people between Twitter and Facebook and Instagram, and 
I retweet things and we start dialogue and it's very interesting." 
Trump's response to Stephanopoulos was a paralipsis: "I'm not saying; I'm just saying" (here in 
the form of "I'm not tweeting it; I'm just retweeting it"). It was not his fact-he had never even 
looked into it. He was just retweeting someone else's accusation and so he was not responsible. 
Throughout his 2016 campaign, Trump used paralipsis to make accusations that he could later 
disavow without having to take responsibility for his words. Paralipsis was a powerful strategy 
for Trump because it allowed Trump to say two things at once-to both say the thing and to not 
say the thing-which helped him spread rumors, conspiracy, and racist content while avoiding 
consequences. He routinely used paralipsis to recirculate innuendo and to distance himself from 
the things that he said. Using paralipsis gave Trump the "out" of plausible deniability. In this 
example, conspiracy and paralipsis were used for anti-democratic ends: the strategies helped 
him to undermine the credibility of established political leaders. 
On May 3, 2016 President Trump used paralipsis to circulate conspiracy theory about the father 
of his biggest Republican rival, Senator Ted Cruz. Trump had called in to Fox & Friends to 
discuss that day's Indiana primary and was asked for his reaction to a video of Cruz's father 
7  (Rafael Cruz) asking voters to "vote for the candidate that stands on the word of God and on 
the Constitution of the United States of America." Rafael Cruz predicted that Trump's election 
11 could be the destruction of America." 
Trump called Rafael Cruz's speech a" disgrace" and then denounced him with a conspiracy 
theory that functioned as an ad hominem attack on his credibility and patriotism. 
Trump: "You know, his father was with Lee Harvey Oswald 
prior to Oswald being, you know, shot. I mean, the whole thing 
is ridiculous. What is this? Ri rior to his bein 
nobody even brings it up. They don't even talk about that. That 
was reported, and nobody talks about it. ... What was he 
with Lee Harvey Oswald shortly before the death? Before the 
shooting? It's horrible." Accusation as fact, 
implicates guilt. 
Conspiracy (self-sealing 
narrative). 
Extends conspiracy to 
include cover-up. 
Ignores lack of source 
credibility. 
Trump was referring to an article published in a supermarket tabloid, the National Enquirer.11 
The story first originated on April 7, 2016, with conspiracy site Info Wars regular and 
"investigative journalist" Wayne Madsen posting a long analysis on the Wayne Madsen Report, 
asking, "Was the father of presidential hopeful Cruz involved in the JFK assassination?" On 
April 14, 2016, a short Reddit thread opened up, with a link to Madsen's article reposted on a 
blog called Milfuegos. On April 15, 2016, Madsen posted the story on Info Wars, and on April 18, 
2016, he joined Alex Jones's Info Wars program to discuss the story. On April 20, 2016, the 
National Enquirer posted a press release online, teasing for its May 2, 2016, cover story: "Ted 
Cruz's Father Now Linked to JFK Assassination!" it exclaimed, promising that the "world 
exclusive bombshell Enquirer probe reveals the photos that will destroy Lyin' Ted." In their 
story, the Enquirer quoted Madsen, "If it is [Rafael Cruz], it raises questions about what he knew 
about Oswald," to support its claim that the "troubling photos suggest Rafael worked directly 
with Oswald before he fired the fatal shots from the Texas School Book Depository in 
downtown Dallas that killed Kennedy on November 22, 1963." 
Wayne Madsen was the only source for the Rafael Cruz-Oswald-JFK story; no other credible 
source for the story emerged, and many news organizations as well as fact-checkers discredited 
the story. As fact-checkers noted, the picture in question was taken in New Orleans in August 
1963 and showed Oswald distributing pro-Castro literature with a person who the Warren 
Commission was never able to identify and who could not be identified based upon the photo. 
Even if the picture turned out to be Rafael Cruz, there was no evidence that the person in the 
photo had any know ledge of a plot to assassinate JFK-an event that would occur three months 
later in a different state. Nonetheless, the National Enquirer and President Trump led their 
audiences to believe that the photo proved a connection between Cruz and Oswald and JFK's 
assassination. 
President Trump had a well-known friendly relationship with National Enquirer tabloid 
publisher, David Pecker, and with Info Wars conspiracist Alex Jones. The Enquirer had run 
8  spoon-fed positive stories about Trump for years, published his "writings," urged him to run 
for president in both 2012 and 2016, used "catch and kill" techniques to suppress negative 
stories about Trump, denounced his opponents, and issued its first-ever presidential 
endorsement all in support of Trump's bid to become president. Trump appeared with Alex 
Jones on Info Wars on December 2, 2015 and continued to be connected with Jones throughout 
Trump's 2016 campaign. Trump did not go on InfoWars again during the campaign, but he 
often echoed the content of their news stories. Trump echoed Jones about Muslim refugees 
being a "Trojan horse," he echoed Jones that "Hillary is the founder of ISIS, along with Obama," 
he echoed Jones that Obama was going to use "executive orders to go after our guns," he 
echoed Jones that "Hillary Clinton is a god-damned demon," he echoed Jones that Clinton 
would be on drugs during the debates, and that Clinton stole the primary and would try to steal 
the general election. Trump echoed Jones so frequently that on August 11, 2016, Jones told his 
Info Wars audience that it was II surreal to talk about issues here on air and then word for word 
hear Trump say it two days later. It is amazing. And it just shows how dialed in this guy is and 
why they're so scared of him." 
In a series of media interviews on May 4, 2016 Trump continued to promote the conspiracy 
about Rafael Cruz while using paralipsis to deny responsibility for the accuracy of his claims: 
1. George Stephanopoulos asked Trump, "Do you owe Ted Cruz's father an apology for saying 
that he was with Lee Harvey Oswald before the JFK assassination?" Trump denied 
responsibility using a paralipsis. 
Trump: "No. The fact is that it was a cover story on the National Enquirer. It was picked up by 
many other people and magazines and periodicals and newspapers, and all I did was refer to it. 
.. .I'm just referring to an article that appeared; it has nothing to do with me." 
Stephanopoulos: "So no apology?" 
Trump: "I'm just referring to an article that appeared; I mean, it has nothing to do with me ... I 
just referred them to articles that were in various periodicals." 
2. The Today Show's Savannah Guthrie asked Trump to explain his accusation, as there was II no 
evidence of this." Trump denied responsibility using the language of conspiracy. 
Trump: "I just asked about stories that were appearing all over the place, not just the National 
Enquirer, that a picture was taken of him and Lee Harvey Oswald and they didn't deny that 
picture. [Cruz's campaign did deny that the picture was of Rafael Cruz.] And I just asked, what 
was that all about? So this was just in response to some very, very nasty-I mean, honestly, 
very, very, very nasty remarks that were made about me ... All I did was refer them to some 
articles that appeared about his picture." 
3. Trump explicitly used a paralipsis to deny responsibility in his self-defense on CNN that night 
with Wolf Blitzer: 
9  Trump: "I'm not saying that he conspired; I'm just saying that it was all over the place. I said, 
'Well, why don't you talk about that?' I'm not saying that he did it, but I'm just saying that it 
was all over the place." 
Blitzer: "You don't really believe that Ted Cruz1s ... 
Trump: "I didn't say." 
Blitzer: 11 
••• father had anything to do with the assassination of President Kennedy?" 
Trump: "No, I don't. No. Of course I don't believe that. I didn't believe it, but I did say, 'Let 
people read it."'12 
The question of Rafael Cruz's relationship to Lee Harvey Oswald largely dropped out of public 
discourse until July 22, 2016. Ted Cruz had made news on July 20, 2016, when he declined to 
endorse Trump in his Republican National Convention speech, urging Republicans instead to 
"vote your conscience." 
In response to this overt insult, Trump pretended to be baffled, "All I did is point out the fact 
that on the cover of the National Enquirer there was a picture of his dad and crazy Lee Harvey 
Oswald having breakfast," he told reporters at a press conference. Then Trump blamed the 
whole Cruz drama on the media taking his paralipsis literally, causing the misunderstanding: 
"The press takes that, and they say, 'Donald Trump and his conspiracy theories; he went out 
and said his father was with Lee Harvey Oswald, and he assassinated the president.' What did I 
do? I know nothing about his father. I know nothing about Lee Harvey Oswald." He was just 
saying; he wasn't saying. Then he took the opportunity to say it again: "But there was a picture 
on the front page of the National Inquirer, which does have credibility, and they're not going to 
do pictures like that because they get sued for a lot of money if things are wrong, OK-a lot of 
money." 
Trump's anti-democratic use of paralipsis allowed him to recirculate the ad hominem attack and 
conspiracy while giving him the out of plausible deniability, which undermined the credibility 
of his opposition and increased his followers' suspicion of those in power. These language 
strategies are anti-democratic because they increase distrust and polarization while 
undermining the legitimacy of political opposition and the political process while also 
preventing accountability. Trump continued to use paralipsis throughout his 2016 presidential 
campaign to circulate rumor and innuendo, which (perhaps counterintuitively) helped him 
appear to be a truthteller for his followers who believed his conspiracies. 
President Trump used anti-democratic language throughout his presidency. 
While many political observers and Trump voters believed that President Trump would 
become more II presidential" once in office, he did not. Trump continued to use anti-democratic 
language throughout his presidency. Here, I want to highlight how Trump used what he called 
"modern day presidential" language in office to outrage his base and his opposition and how 
the Mueller Report showed him using ad baculum (threats of force or intimidation), ad hominem 
10  (attacking the person), and paralipsis (I'm not saying; I'm just saying) as anti-democratic 
coercion strategies to try to end the investigation into his 2016 campaign. 
President Trump often explained that he communicated the way that he did because it was 
effective. "My use of social media is not Presidential -it's MODERN DAY PRESIDENTIAL. 
Make America Great Again!" Trump tweeted on July 1, 2017. He used communication strategies 
to keep the nation entertained and attentive with what were designed to stoke outrage in his 
base, his opposition, and the mainstream media gatekeepers. Trump's communication style was 
calibrated perfectly for the metrics that allow trolls to dominate our public sphere: attention and 
engagement. 
Within the attention economy, being outrageous is the most efficient way to set the nation's 
news agenda, frame issues, and influence citizens. Outrage, especially when deployed with 
conspiracy, has the added benefit of unifying audiences against whatever is named as the target 
of outrage, which was useful for President Trump because it solidified his political base, but is 
anti-democratic because it increases distrust, polarization, and frustration. Trump used outrage 
and conspiracy to keep the nation on edge, which threatened democratic stability. That outrage 
and conspiracy, rewarded with our attention, allowed him to control our public sphere 
throughout his presidency. 
In Special Council Robert S. Mueller's Report on the Investigation into Russian Interference in the 
2016 Presidential Election, we see evidence of President Trump using ad baculum (threats of force 
or intimidation) in anti-democratic ways. The Report shows Trump using ad baculum as a cudgel 
to intimidate, coerce, and gain compliance over others in the government. Ad baculum in 
argumentation is fallacious-it is an attempt to prevent debate and discussion by overwhelming 
the opposition, so that they cannot make their case. Ad baculum in politics is authoritarian-it is 
a tactic designed to prevent democratic decision-making, or in this case, to prevent the 
administration of justice in a democratic, rule-of-law system.13 
The Mueller Report and President Trump's statements around it show repeated examples of the 
president acting to undermine democratic public deliberation, delegitimize his opponents, and 
abuse language to gain compliance: 
1. President Trump used anti-democratic language to put pressure on his staff to violate 
democratic political norms and undermine the Mueller investigation. 
Perhaps the most egregious example of President Trump using anti-democratic language is 
when he tried to force Attorney General Jeff Sessions to un-recuse himself from the 
investigation. According to the Mueller Report, "During that Oval Office meeting, which [Staff 
Secretary Rob] Porter attended, the President again suggested that Sessions could "un-recuse," 
which Porter interpreted as taking back supervision of the Russia investigation and directing an 
investigation of Hillary Clinton. According to contemporaneous notes taken by Porter, the 
President said, "I don't know if you could un-recuse yourself. You'd be a hero. Not telling you 
to do anything. [Celebrity lawyer and President Trump defender Alan] Dershowitz says POTUS 
can get involved. Can order AG to investigate. I don't want to get involved. I'm not going to get 
involved. I'm not going to do anything or direct you to do anything. I just want to be treated 
fairly." 
11  In this example, we see President Trump using one of his favorite rhetorical strategies, paralipsis 
(I'm not saying; I'm just saying), to put pressure on Sessions by indirectly instructing him to un­
recuse, while at the same time stating that he was not going to direct him to do anything. 
Trump told Sessions that he would "be a hero" if he did the thing that Trump told him -but 
technically didn't tell him -to do. Trump is a master at saying two things at once in such a 
way that his message is conveyed, but he retains plausible deniability. 
When President Trump said that he only wanted to be treated "fairly," he meant that he wanted 
to be treated in a way that helped him out of his predicament, which is not exactly "fair." 
Trump continued to put pressure on Sessions to un-recuse himself in public interviews and 
tweets until Trump eventually fired him. (Volume 2, p. 108-111) 
2. President Trump used anti-democratic language to attack the news media. 
President Trump attacked the media for reporting facts, threatened journalists with libel and 
accused them of reporting II fake news" and of being "enemies of the people," which exposed 
the press to the risk of violence. 
In anticipation of the release of Attorney General Barr's March 24, 2019 summary of the Mueller 
Report weeks before the redacted version was released, for example, President Trump tweeted, 
"The Fake News Media has NEVER been more Dishonest or Corrupt than it is right now. There 
has never been a time like this in American History. Very exciting but also, very sad! Fake News 
is the absolute Enemy of the People and our Country itself!"14 
Donald J. Trump O 
@realDonaldTrump ( Follow ) v 
The Fake News Media has NEVER been 
more Dishonest or Corrupt than it is right 
now. There has never been a time like this in 
American History. Very exciting but also, very 
sad! Fake News is the absolute Enemy of the 
People and our Country itself! 
5:24AM -19 Mar 2019 
28,278 Retweets 106,324 Likes • i;_; • 
• Cog e, i;_; A 
Karen 
President Trump's attacks on the press were ad baculum threats of force and intimidation, using 
the power of the presidency to exert force over the press in return for favorable news coverage. 
In this example, Trump not only sought to intimidate the news media, but he exposed them to 
violence by calling them II the absolute Enemy," extremist language that invited his followers to 
see the press as treasonous traitors, as enemies to be destroyed. Such positioning is typical of 
presidential war rhetoric: on the eve of the release of the Mueller Report, Trump invited the 
nation to view the press as enemy combatants to be destroyed. 
12  3. President Trump used anti-democratic language to attack the Mueller investigation itself and 
Robert Mueller personally, seeking to deny both political legitimacy. 
When President Trump attempted to fire Robert Mueller, he told then-White House Counsel 
Donald F. McGahn privately and tweeted publicly using an ad hominem (attacking the person) 
and tu quoque (appeal to hypocrisy) that Mueller was too "conflicted" to serve in the role: "This 
is a terrible situation and Attorney General Jeff Sessions should stop this Rigged Witch Hunt 
right now, before it continues to stain our country any further. Bob Mueller is totally conflicted, 
and his 17 Angry Democrats that are doing his dirty work are a disgrace to USA!" (Volume 2, p. 
130). 
President Trump also repeatedly attempted to discredit the entire investigation into his conduct 
as a "hoax" and as a "witch hunt." These are ad hominem (attacking the person) attacks steeped 
in conspiracy rhetoric, designed to discredit both Mueller and the investigation. Trump's use of 
ad hominem against Mueller was meant to convince the nation that Mueller lacked the credibility 
to perform his duties impartially. Trump's use of ad hominem against the investigation aimed to 
frame the investigation as an illegitimate conspiracy, and as lacking the standing to question 
Trump's behavior. Trump repeatedly used anti-democratic language strategies such as ad 
baculum, ad hominem, and paralipsis to try to prevent himself from being held accountable by the 
law and the lawful investigation into his conduct. 
President Trump used anti-democratic language during the 2020 presidential election to cast 
doubt on the election results. 
President Trump first used the "Stop the Steal" conspiracy theory during his 2016 presidential 
campaign.15 He revived and elaborated on the conspiracy theory during his 2020 presidential 
campaign, ultimately refusing to accept the results of the election and threatening the peaceful 
transition of power. Below I explain how right-wing II agent provocateur" and conspiracy 
theorists Roger Stone, Alex Jones, and Milo Yiannopoulos gave Trump the idea for the "Stop the 
Steal" conspiracy in 2016 and how Trump used it to introduce doubt in the results of that 
election by "poisoning the well" (a preemptive attack) to create a frame for understanding his 
election loss (frame: "Trump couldn't lose the election unless Clinton stole it"). Next, I explain 
how Trump continued to use the same "poisoning the well" framing strategy with the "Stop the 
Steal" conspiracy in 2020. Trump's conspiracy was very successful, ultimately convincing his 
followers to reject the results of the election, thereby delegitimizing the electoral process and the 
Biden presidency, preventing the peaceful transition of power, and threatening democracy in 
America. 
1. How the "Stop the Steal" Conspiracy Emerged in 2016. 
During his 2016 presidential campaign President Trump argued repeatedly that there was a 
conspiracy to deprive him of the presidency and prevent him from making America great 
again. Trump's campaign-long conspiracy narrative had an evolved plotline: Trump claimed 
that there was a conspiracy against American exceptionalism (America's unique status among 
other nations in the world, here conveyed as American greatness). Trump claimed that the 
conspiracy was led by President Barack Obama and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, 
who weren't even American (Obama) and were completely controlled by global interests 
13  (Clinton). Trump claimed that the conspiracy was supported by journalists (who Trump called 
purveyors of fake news and suppressors of the truth) and the FBI and DOJ (who supposedly 
covered up Clinton's email scandal) and the DNC (who supposedly rigged the Democratic 
primary for Clinton). Trump claimed that the conspiracy's goal was to destroy America from 
within by erasing national borders, polluting the nation with dangerous immigrants, and 
destroying the American economy. Trump claimed that the conspiracy was so powerful that it 
would rig the presidential election to make Clinton president. But, Trump claimed, he and his 
followers were more powerful than the conspirators, and because they could clearly see the 
conspiracy, they would elect Trump president so that he could drain the swamp of corruption. 
Conspiracy framed Trump's entire 2016 presidential campaign. 
President Trump told Playboy magazine in 1990, "I'm a very untrusting guy. I study people all 
the time, automatically; it's my way of life." As an untrusting guy, he was a connoisseur and 
purveyor of conspiracy theory. As such, Trump associated with other well-known conspiracy 
theorists. Most notably, on December 2, 2015 Trump appeared with infamous conspiracy 
theorist Alex Jones-who the Anti-Defamation League called, 11 the conspiracy king" -on his 
InfoWars program. Trump's appearance on InfoWars was arranged by self-proclaimed "agent 
provocateur" and long-time Trump political advisor and Info Wars regular Roger Stone, who 
would later be found guilty on seven counts of "lying, obstruction, and witness tampering" to 
prevent or obscure the investigation into the DNC email hack and WikiLeaks. Not only did 
Stone, Jones, and Trump share an interest in conspiracy; they also shared an interest in getting 
Trump elected, and Jones had a large audience of potential Trump voters. 
On July 27, 2016 President Trump's former political advisor Roger Stone appeared with 
Breitbart News' Milo Yiannopoulos for his Milo Show where he warned Trump that Clinton was 
planning to use "widespread voter fraud" to steal the election. Stone advised Trump to "begin 
talking about it constantly." The message to the nation ought to be, "if there's voter fraud, this 
election will be illegitimate, we will have a constitutional crisis, widespread civil disobedience, 
and the government will no longer be the government," Stone told Yiannopoulos. Stone warned 
that there would be "a bloodbath" if Clinton wins. "No, we will not stand for it. We will not 
stand for it," he insisted. 
Two days later conspiracy theorist Alex Jones posted an II emergency message to Donald 
Trump," which, like Stone had done, warned Trump about Clinton's impending election fraud. 
"It's imperative that the Trump campaign make this one of the central issues: if she steals the 
primary, then she's going to steal the general election," advised Jones. "I'm asking the 
American people to support you in standing up to this witch," Jones concluded, speaking 
directly to Trump through his Info Wars video. "I'm asking the American people to take action 
and really cause a grassroots brushfire ... because if you think Hillary's gonna stop with 
stealing the nomination, if you think she's not going to try to steal the general election, I got a 
bridge in Brooklyn I want to sell you." 
Alex Jones had Roger Stone on his show on August 1, 2016, where both agreed that Clinton was 
determined to steal the election from President Trump. "If she stole the primary, she's going to 
try to steal the election," Jones told Stone, "so now Donald Trump really needs to think about 
what he's going to do, but we need to think about what are we going to do to stop Hillary 
Clinton." Stone, who had already set up a website called "Stop the Steal" told Jones that he was 
14  "convinced that they are looking more and more at the option of stealing it." Stone thought 
with Russia dropping "truth bombs on her campaign" that she would get even more desperate. 
Stone said that Trump's message to the nation needed to be that he would II challenge her being 
sworn in. I will have my people march on Washington and we will block your inauguration," 
Stone advised. "We're not rolling over," was the message that Trump needed to send, according 
to both Jones and Stone. Both agreed that the only thing that could prevent Clinton from 
stealing the election would be an electoral landslide for Trump: "What you can't steal is a 
landslide-that's been proven," said Jones. 
That same day in Columbus, Ohio, Trump told his rally crowd that "I'm afraid the election is 
going to be rigged, I have to be honest. Because I think my side was rigged-if I didn't win by 
massive landslides. I mean, think of what we won in New York and Indiana, California- 78 
percent. That's with other people in the race. But think of it," Trump told his rally crowd in 
Ohio. "I hear more and more that the election on November 8 ... ," he said, echoing what he 
had heard over the past three days from Stone and Jones. (The subject of the speech then 
changed course and never returned back to the subject of Clinton stealing the election.) 
"You said at a speech today you're afraid this election is going to be rigged," Sean Hannity said 
to Trump that night. "Explain." Trump offered no proof of the conspiracy but said that he'd 
"been hearing about it for a long time" and since during the 2012 election "you had precincts 
where there were practically nobody voting for the Republican" and because "it was rigged, I 
thought, a little bit for me and we won in landslides. I think it was rigged against Bernie 
Sanders with his super delegates nonsense," explained Trump. "I'm telling you November 8, 
we better be careful because that election's going to be rigged, and I hope the Republicans are 
watching closely, or it's going to be taken away from us." 
Within two weeks, Trump's campaign had posted a website for recruiting poll watchers to 
"watch closely" so that the election did not get "taken away from us," as he had said to Hannity 
on August 1, 2016. "Hours before the site gained traction Friday night," Politico reported, 
"Trump said at a rally in Altoona, Pennsylvania, that the only way he would lose in 
Pennsylvania is 'if cheating goes on. She can't beat what's happening here. The only way they 
can beat it in my opinion, and I mean this 100 percent, if in certain sections of the state they 
cheat."' 
When President Trump was asked if he would II absolutely accept the result of this election" at 
the third presidential debate on October 19, 2016 he answered, "I will look at it at the time. I'm 
not looking at anything now. I'll look at it at the time ... I'll keep you in suspense." The next day 
Trump told his rally crowd in Delaware, Ohio, that he would II totally accept the results of this 
great and historic presidential election-if I win." His rally crowd cheered. By October 27, 2016, 
Trump told his rally in Toledo, Ohio, "I'm just thinking to myself right now; we should just 
cancel the election and just give it to Trump, right? What are we even having it for?" The rally 
crowd roared in approval. 
Trump's supporters got the message that Clinton was going to steal the election. According to a 
story by Dana Milbank in the October 18, 2016, Washington Post: "Retiree Gerald Miller, a 
volunteer at Donald Trump's rally here [shared] Trump's concern that the election may be 
'rigged' by the Clinton campaign. 'It is enough to skew the election. They can swing it either 
15  way."' He told Milbank that "Donald Trump is going to holler fraud if he doesn't win. I think 
we're on the verge of a civil war, a racial war. This could be the spark that sets it off." Likewise, 
on October 13, 2016, Trump supporters in Cincinnati, Ohio, told the Boston Globe's Matt Viser 
and Tracy Jan that they had no doubt that Clinton planned to rig the election. Viser and Jan 
reported that "anger and hostility were the most overwhelming sentiments" among Trump 
supporters, along with" a deep sense of frustration, an us-versus-them mentality, and a belief 
that they are part of an unstoppable and underestimated movement." Even though Trump 
supporters felt powerful, Viser and Jan reported that they were "worried that Democrats will 
load up buses of minorities and take them to vote several times in different areas of the city. 
They've heard rumors that boxes of Clinton votes are already waiting somewhere." A Trump 
supporter named Jeannine Bell Smith worried that "we're going to have a lot of election fraud. 
They are having illegals vote. In some states, you don't need voter registration to vote."16 
2. "Stop the Steal" 2020. 
President Trump revived his conspiracy claim that the Democratic Party was trying to "rig" 
their nomination process to prevent Senator Bernie Sanders from winning as early as January 
22, 2020 when he tweeted, "They are taking the nomination away from Bernie for a second time. 
Rigged!"17 Trump continued to claim that the Democratic Party nomination was "rigged" until 
the process was over, and Vice-President Joe Biden became the party's nominee. For example, 
on February 18, 2020, Trump tweeted: "The Crooked DNC is working overtime to take the 
Democrat Nomination away from Bernie, AGAIN! Watch what happens to the Super Delegates 
in Round Two. A Rigged Convention!" 
By May 1, 2020 Trump tweeted about "rigged elections" in general: "Don't allow RIGGED 
ELECTIONS!" On June 22, 2020 Trump tweeted about the supposed dangers of mail-in ballots, 
"RIGGED 2020 ELECTION: MILLIONS OF MAIL-IN BALLOTS WILL BE PRINTED BY 
FOREIGN COUNTRIES, AND OTHERS. IT WILL BE THE SCANDAL OF OUR TIMES!" 
President Trump continued to rail against mail-in ballots, voter registration, drop-boxes, and 
other election procedures throughout the remainder of the campaign. This strategy allowed him 
to create widespread doubt against the election. Trump used the same "poison the well" 
conspiracy strategy that he had used in 2016 to create a frame for understanding that he could 
only lose the election if the election was rigged against him. Trump and his accomplices tweeted 
and gave speeches and interviews about the election conspiracy throughout the summer and 
fall of 2020. Trump and his accomplices have continued to spread his election rigging 
conspiracy to this day. 
Trump continued to use his anti-democratic conspiracy even after Joe Bi den was declared 
President-Elect, "He only won in the eyes of the FAKE NEWS MEDIA I concede NOTHING! 
We have a long way to go. This was a RIGGED ELECTION!" he tweeted on November 15, 2020. 
He also ominously tweeted, "We won't let a RIGGED ELECTION steal our Country!" that same 
day. It was noteworthy that Trump connected election "rigging" with "stealing our country" 
because it linked Trump's appeal to conspiracy with an enemy invasion of the nation. Trump 
vowed to continue fighting the conspiracy as well as defend his and his follower's "country" 
from election thieves. As Roger Stone had warned in 2016, "election rigging" meant there 
16  would be a "bloodbath," a "constitutional crisis, widespread civil disobedience, and the 
government will no longer be the government." 
Like he had done when he pressured the Mueller investigation, President Trump repeatedly 
tried to put pressure on different parts of state and federal governments to violate the law. On 
December 10, 2020 Trump used ad baculum (threats of force or intimidation) with an ad populum 
(appeal to the wisdom of the crowd) in a tweet pressuring the U. S. Supreme Court to make him 
president "The Supreme Court has a chance to save our Country from the greatest Election 
abuse in the history of the United States. 78% of the people feel (know!) the Election 
was RIGGED." 
On December 24, 2020 President Trump tweeted used ad baculum (threats of force or 
intimidation) with an ad populum (appeal to the wisdom of the crowd) to put pressure on the 
Senate to make him president, "At a meeting in Florida today, everyone was asking why aren't 
the Republicans up in arms & fighting over the fact that the Democrats stole the rigged 
presidential election? Especially in the Senate, they said, where you helped 8 Senators win their 
races. How quickly they forget!" 
On December 26, 2020 President Trump called the conspiracy an II act of war" in a tweet 
demanding that the Republicans in the Senate "fight to the death" to make Trump president: "If 
a Democrat Presidential Candidate had an Election Rigged & Stolen, with proof of such acts at a 
level never seen before, the Democrat Senators would consider it an act of war, and fight to the 
death. Mitch & the Republicans do NOTHING, just want to let it pass. NO FIGHT!" Trump 
positioned Senate Democrats as vicious and irrational and goaded his fellow Republicans for 
their weakness, putting pressure on them to "fight to the death." 
President Trump tweeted the word "fight" at least 29 times between November 15, 2020 and 
January 6, 2021. Trump repeatedly used ad baculum (threats of force or intimidation) to put 
pressure on members of the government to violate the law to make Trump president. On 
January 6, 2021 Trump used a quote retweet to put pressure on his party to make him president, 
"Get smart Republicans. FIGHT!" Trump wrote while retweeting, "Republicans confirmed 
Justice Barrett, which they had the clear, lawful right to do, and in response Chuck Schumer 
said, 'EVERYTHING IS ON THE TABLE NOW.' If that's the case, why shouldn't Republican 
legislators go to the wall for the President?" 
President Trump had spent weeks putting pressure on other branches of government and his 
party to II go to the wall for the president." He continued to use anti-democratic ad baculum 
(threats of force or intimidation) and conspiracy put pressure on the government in his speech 
at the Ellipse on January 6, 2021. 
President Trump used anti-democratic language on January 6, 2021, which turned a 
democratic political protest into political violence. 
President Trump used anti-democratic language on January 6, 2021 to turn a legitimate political 
protest into illegitimate political violence. Looking at the entirety of what occurred on that day, 
it's clear that there was both legitimate political protest and illegitimate political violence. If we 
look at the Ellipse, we see a vibrant, and legitimate, political protest with signs, chants, and 
17  speeches. If we look at the Capitol, by contrast, we see illegitimate political violence, including 
people using bear spray, erecting a hangman's noose, physically assaulting others, and breaking 
into the building. The link between the two events was Trump's speech on that day. 
President Trump used anti-democratic political speech on January 6, 2021. He used a particular 
combination of rhetorical strategies that has been used traditionally to motivate a nation for 
war.18 In addition to conspiracy theory, Trump's war rhetoric in his speech used four strategies: 
1) victimage (we are innocent victims); 2) patriotism ("we" are good, strong, pure, and sure of 
victory); 3) exterminationism (a plague must be removed to be pure again); and 4) ad baculum 
(threats of force or intimidation). 19 
That type of communication from a president could be legitimate political speech when used to 
motivate a nation for war against another (aggressor) nation. But when the president uses war 
rhetoric against the democratic process in his own government in order to retain power, it is 
not legitimate political discourse. Rather, as scholars of authoritarianism have explained, using 
war rhetoric against your own nation amounts to an II autogolpe," or II self-coup." 20 
When President Trump used conspiracy and war rhetoric against his own government and 
urged the Ellipse crowd to march towards the Capitol and "fight like hell," his words 
transformed the speech occasion from a legitimate political protest rally into an anti­
democratic violent insurrection. 
As he had done so many times since he began his 2016 presidential campaign, President Trump 
used an ad baculum (threat of force or intimidation) in combination with a paralipsis (I'm not 
saying; I'm just saying) as a tactic to threaten violence while retaining plausible deniability. 
President Trump told his audience "I know that everyone here will soon be marching over to 
the Capitol building to peacefully and patriotically make your voices heard," but he also said 
repeatedly that his audience needed to "fight." Trump told his audience, "We fight like hell. 
And if you don't fight like hell, you're not going to have a country anymore." Trump used the 
word II fight" twenty times in his speech and used the word II peacefully" one time. 
President Trump said two things at once so he could not be held accountable, but it was clear 
that Trump's Ellipse rally audience understood him to be asking for them to fight. When Trump 
told the audience, "We will not let them silence your voices. We're not going to let it happen, 
I'm not going to let it happen." The audience repeatedly chanted "fight for Trump" in response, 
indicating they understood that since he was fighting for his audience, his audience needed to 
fight for him. He responded to their chant by saying, 11 thank you." His audience acted in 
accordance with his demands, by marching to the Capitol to "fight like hell," just as he 
instructed them to do. When the crowd arrived at the Capitol they continued to chant "Fight for 
Trump! Fight for Trump!"21 
My analysis of President Trump's January 6, 2021 "Save America Rally" speech shows that it 
had two purposes: first, provide supposed evidence to support his election conspiracy; and, 
second, motivate his rally crowd to act by putting pressure on Congress to prevent the 
certification of the election results. 
18  President Trump devoted a large portion of his speech to providing supposed evidence to 
support his election rigging conspiracy, by explaining to his audience: "These are the facts that 
you won't hear from the fake news media. It's all part of the suppression effort. They don't 
want to talk about it. They don't want to talk about it. In fact, when I started talking about that, I 
guarantee you, a lot of the television sets and a lot of those cameras went off. And that's a lot of 
cameras back there. But a lot of them went off." 
This conspiracy frame had dominated his anti-democratic language about the 2020 election for 
the previous year (as described above). His speech sought to provide an accumulation of 
evidence to "prove" the existence of widespread voter fraud and election tampering, which 
Trump claimed- as he had done with the "Stop the Steal" conspiracy in 2016-amounted to a 
"theft." Calling the election a "theft" was an anti-democratic way to delegitimize the political 
process and Joe Bi den's presidency, but it also implied action: if you are a victim of a "theft," 
then something was unjustly taken from you and you are permitted to "fight" to get back what 
is rightfully yours. Trump used these strategies to give motivation and permission to his 
audience to attack the Capitol. 
While President Trump used his speech to establish his conspiracy frame, he also deployed four 
well-used strategies of war rhetoric. These strategies have been used by presidents and other 
leaders throughout history and around the world to motivate a population to fight. Trump 
positioned his followers as innocent victims of irrational aggressors who were determined to 
destroy them and the nation. Trump also positioned his followers as the II real" Americans, as 
patriots who were the rightful winners of the election and who were strong and justified to act to 
defend what was rightfully theirs. Trump used exterminationist rhetoric to argue that the pure 
nation had been polluted by the irrational aggressors who were determined to destroy the 
nation, and therefore it needed to be purified. Finally, Trump used ad baculum (threats of force 
or intimidation) to threaten members of Congress, Vice-President Mike Pence, the media, and 
anyone else who Trump labeled as part of the conspiracy. 
1) Rhetoric of victimage (we are the innocent victims of an election theft): 
11 All of us here today do not want to see our election victory stolen by emboldened 
radical-left Democrats, which is what they're doing. And stolen by the fake news media. 
That1s what they've done and what they're doing. We will never give up, we will never 
concede. It doesn1t happen. You don1t concede when there1s theft involved." 
"For years Democrats have gotten away with election fraud." 
"Democrats attempted the most brazen and outrageous election theft .. .It's a pure theft 
in American history, everybody knows it." 
"Our country has been under siege for a long time, far longer than this four-year 
period." 
2) Rhetoric of patriotism (we are the real patriots who are strong and sure of victory): 
"Hundreds of thousands of American patriots are committed to the honesty of our 
elections & the integrity of our glorious Republic." 
19  "We will never give up. We will never concede, it doesn't happen. You don't concede 
when there's theft involved." 
"We will not take it anymore and that's what this is all about." 
"We will not let them silence your voices. We're not going to let it happen. Not going to 
let it happen.<the crowd chants: "Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump!"> 
"You're stronger, you're smarter. You've got more going than anybody, and they try 
and demean everybody having to do with us, and you're the real people. You're the 
people that built this nation. You're not the people that tore down our nation." 
"We will not be intimidated into accepting the hoaxes and the lies that we've been 
forced to believe over the past several weeks. But it's never going to be the end of us, 
never. Let them get out. Let the weak ones get out. This is a time for strength." 
"We have truth and justice on our side. We have a deep and enduring love for America 
in our hearts. We love our country. We have overwhelming pride in this great country 
and we have it deep in our souls." 
"Together we are determined to defend and preserve government of the people, by the 
people and for the people." 
3. Exterminationist rhetoric (there is a plague we must remove to be pure again): 
"Our country will be destroyed, and we're not going to stand for that." 
"The radical left knows exactly what they're doing. They're ruthless and it's time that 
somebody did something about it." 
"Our media is not free. It's not fair. It suppresses thought. It suppresses speech, and it's 
become the enemy of the people. It's become the enemy of the people." 
4) Ad baculum (threats of force) against Congress, Republicans, Vice-President Mike Pence, 
Democrats, and the media: 
"These people are not going to take it any longer." 
"He's got guts, unlike a lot of people in the Republican party. He's got guts, he 
fights ... He looked at Mike Pence, and I hope Mike is going to do the right thing." 
"Unbelievable, what we have to go through, what we have to go through and you have 
to get your people to fight. If they don't fight, we have to primary the hell out of the 
ones that don't fight. You primary them. We' re going to let you know who they are." 
"We' re going to have to fight much harder and Mike Pence is going to have to come 
through for us. If he doesn't, that will be a sad day for our country because you're sworn 
to uphold our constitution." 
20  "After this, we're going to walk down and I'll be there with you. We're going to walk 
down ... We're going walk down to the Capitol, and we're going to cheer on our brave 
senators, and congressmen and women. We're probably not going to be cheering so 
much for some of them because you'll never take back our country with weakness. You 
have to show strength, and you have to be strong. We have come to demand that 
Congress do the right thing and only count the electors who have been lawfully slated, 
lawfully slated." 
"I know that everyone here will soon be marching over to the Capitol building to 
peacefully and patriotically make your voices heard." 
"And I'm going to be watching, because history is going to be made. We're going to see 
whether or not we have great and courageous leaders or whether or not we have leaders 
that should be ashamed of themselves throughout history, throughout eternity, they'll 
be ashamed. And you know what? If they do the wrong thing, we should never ever 
forget that they did. Never forget. We should never ever forget." 
"Mike Pence, I hope you're going to stand up for the good of our constitution and for 
the good of our country. And if you're not, I'm going to be very disappointed in you. I 
will tell you right now. I'm not hearing good stories." 
"So we're going to, we're going to walk down Pennsylvania Avenue ... and we're going 
to the Capitol and we're going to try and give ... The Democrats are hopeless. They're 
never voting for anything, not even one vote. But we're going to try and give our 
Republicans, the weak ones, because the strong ones don't need any of our help, we're 
going to try and give them the kind of pride and boldness that they need to take back 
our country. So let's walk down Pennsylvania A venue." 
President Trump used language like a General motivating his troops. His troops then stormed 
the Capitol, just like he asked them to do. There is not a specific battle plan in the speech; he left 
the battle plan up to the crowd-very carefully not instructing them to do anything more 
specific than "walk down" and "fight like hell." He told his crowd that everything was on the 
line, a great injustice had been done to them and their pure nation, and that they were all­
powerful and could stop it <somehow>. Then, Trump told them to march toward the Capitol 
11 to take back our country" and that he would march with them. 
Later that day on January 6, 2021 President Trump used apologia (self-defense) to explain away 
and defend the violence that occurred at the Capitol after his speech. Trump tweeted, "These 
are the things and events that happen when a sacred landslide victory is so unceremoniously & 
viciously stripped away from great patriots who have been badly & unfairly treated for so long. 
Go home with love & in peace. Remember this day forever!"22 
21  Donald J Trump 0 
@realDonaldTrump _ ( follow ) v 
These are the things and events that happen 
when a sacred landslide election victory is so 
unceremoniously & viciously stripped away 
from great patriots who have been badly & 
unfairly treated for so long. Go home with 
love & in peace. Remember this day forever! 
15:01 -Jan 6, 2021 
His tweet used the same conspiracy, victimage, and patriotism strategies as his speech earlier in 
the day as a defense for the insurrection. It also included a strategy to II cool out" the crowd by 
giving them an honorable way to remember their participation in the insurrection. They were 
not II insurrectionists," but II great patriots" who should remember what they did on January 6, 
202111forever" (somewhat reminiscent of William Shakespeare's St. Crispin Day speech in 
HenryV). 
The tweet's primary (unstated) strategy is denial (it didn't happen) through differentiation (it 
wasn't what they say it was). President Trump's apologia (self-defense) used strategic ambiguity: 
he called the attack on Congress II things and events" instead of giving his audience a specific 
term or label for understanding what happened. Trump framed the insurrection in a neutral 
way that gave plausible deniability to the insurrectionists, himself, his supporters at home, and 
his supporters in the Republican Party. This nation is still trying to determine the right word to 
use to describe the violence at the Capitol. Because Trump used war rhetoric against the 
peaceful transition of power, I believe the attack on the Capitol should be labeled an 
11 insurrection" or a II self-coup." 
From that strategic ambiguity, President Trump justified and condoned the insurrection. Trump 
explained what happened at the Capitol was not a violent insurrection but an <undefined 
thing> that was a reasonable response of II great patriots" who had been deprived their II sacred 
victory" by a conspiracy. Trump's anti-democratic conspiracy rhetoric and his strategies of 
victimage and patriotism, were once again useful for denying and explaining away his previous 
ad baculum (threats of force or intimidation). 
President Trump has continued to use these same anti-democratic strategies to refer to the 2020 
election and the insurrection on January 6, 2021. 
Conclusion: President Trump's anti-democratic language is "treason to the democratic way of 
life." 
In 1939, just nine months after 20,000 people attended a Nazi rally at Madison Square Garden in 
New York City, philosopher John Dewey gave a speech in which he warned Americans that 
their democracy was at risk.23 For democracy to thrive, Dewey believed, Americans had to think 
of it as more than just a political system. Dewey wrote that we could only defeat Nazism if we 
22  recognized that "democracy is a way of life," a specific way of associating, thinking, and 
communicating. 
Today the threat is not Nazism; however, Dewey's warning about the health of our democracy 
is equally warranted. Over the past several decades we have stopped associating, thinking, and 
communicating democratically. 
Democracy would beat Nazism in America, Dewey argued, so long as there were, "free 
gatherings of neighbors on the street corner to discuss back and forth what is read in 
uncensored news of the day, and in gatherings of friends in the living rooms of houses and 
apartments to converse freely with one another." Dewey knew that democracy was threatened 
by "intolerance, abuse, [ or the] calling of names because of differences of opinion." Dewey 
called all of those democracy-threatening communication practices "treason to the democratic 
way of life." He explained, that "everything which bars freedom and fullness of communication 
sets up barriers that divide human beings into sets and cliques, into antagonistic sects and 
factions," which undermines democracy. 
What is true about the kind of communication that was II treason for the democratic way of life" 
in 1939 remains true today. A democrat is someone who is motivated by freedom, equality, 
social justice, and political practices that allow all citizens to share power. As Dewey warned in 
1939, there are certain ways of communicating that amount to "treason" because they increase 
distrust, polarization, and frustration between citizens as well as between citizens and their 
government. In so doing, those treasonous communication practices threaten the fragile trust 
upon which democracy rests, which therefore erodes democracy itself. 
Unfortunately, former President Donald Trump is an expert at using the kind of communication 
that is "treason to the democratic way of life." 
Based on his history of using anti-democratic language as a weapon and the fact he used war 
rhetoric to change a legitimate political protest into illegitimate political violence on January 6, 
2021, I believe it is reasonable to conclude that President Trump used language to incite a 
violent attack on the United States Capitol. 
23  Appendix A: Definitions of Rhetorical Terms 
Argumentum ad populum (Latin for "appeal to the crowd"). Used by a demagogue to praise his 
or her supporters as wise, good, and knowledgeable. Ad populum appeals can work in three 
different ways: first, ad populum appeals can be used as an argument ad verecundiam (an appeal to 
authority), in which demagogues try to persuade that some disputed thing is a "fact" because it 
is commonly believed to be fact, or believed to be a fact by a select subset of the population who 
supports the demagogue's argument. Second, demagogues can use the presence of a large 
crowd of people as evidence of widespread support, claiming that the size of the crowd is 
evidence that the demagogue speaks the truth and represents the true voice of the people. 
While appealing to the size of a crowd may seem persuasive, large crowds can be unreliable 
indicators of either truth or support. Third, demagogues can use large crowds of people to 
heighten the emotional responses of audiences, relying on "sociopsychological factors that play 
a part in meetings of large groups of people" to manipulate "the emotions of those present" in 
order to "to get his way." According to argument scholars Frans van Eemeren and Rob 
Grootendorst, "the true demagogue knows how to play on both positive and negative emotions 
and how to touch both the group as a whole and the individuals composing it. The positive 
emotions that may be exploited include, for example, feelings of safety and loyalty; the negative 
ones include fear, greed, and shame." Appeals to popular opinion are not always fallacious, of 
course, but when "the crowd" is not representative of the whole (it consists of only the 
demagogue's supporters or is manufactured through astroturfing), then the appeal to the 
wisdom of the crowd is merely manipulation. Demagogues use ad populum appeals to gain and 
maintain power because it is difficult to challenge what is believed to be popular. Demagogues 
also use ad populum appeals to prevent critical thinking by overwhelming people with the 
supposed authority of the crowd and vox populi, vox dei arguments (Latin for "the voice of the 
people is the voice of God"). Indeed, the propagandistic abuse of "the wisdom of the people" 
via arguments based upon ad populum appeals is one of the more pernicious techniques of 
demagogues because it erodes a society's trust in the wisdom of "the people" and in popular 
rule. A dangerous demagogue has no power without their followers. 
American exceptionalism (America's unique status among other nations in the world). Used by a 
dangerous demagogue to motivate audiences to support the demagogue's policies. Alexis de 
Tocqueville first described America's exceptional situation relative to other nations in his 1835 
Democracy in America. "The position of the Americans" being so far from Europe, de Tocqueville 
noted, "is therefore quite exceptional, and it may be believed that no democratic people will 
ever be placed in a similar one." He also noted that America's" strictly Puritanical" religion, 
"exclusively commercial habits," and the distractions of nature, "which seems to divert their 
minds from the pursuit of science, literature, and the arts" combined to create a distinctly 
American culture. Political scientist Seymour Martin Lipset, like de Tocqueville, observed 
11 America continues to be qualitatively different." Yet, Lipset believes that this exceptionalism is 
11 a two-edged phenomenon; it does not mean better. This country is an outlier. It is the most 
religious, optimistic, patriotic, rights-oriented, and individualistic." While some take the word 
"exceptionalism" to mean "unequivocally good," Lipset explains that American exceptionalism 
has always been a technical distinction -America is simply different from other nations -in 
some good ways and some bad ways. Yet the II myth of American exceptionalism" elides 
America's "uniqueness" and substitutes instead America's "greatness." Appeals to American 
exceptionalism rely on Americans' pride and their desire to believe that their nation is the best 
among others, that it is chosen by God, and that it has a heroic destiny to spread democracy and 
24  enlightenment throughout the world. By using powerful appeals to American exceptionalism, 
demagogues may persuade audiences to support policies that they might not otherwise 
support. Because American exceptionalism techniques stir the patriotic emotions of pride, they 
can make critical thinking more difficult. American exceptionalism appeals are particularly 
pernicious because they take advantage of the nation's hope that it can be a beacon of freedom 
and liberty for others and turns what could be a positive approach to understanding the 
nation's obligations toward other nations into hubris and, potentially, to violence. 
Paralipsis (Greek for "to leave to the side," or more colloquially, "I'm not saying; I'm just 
saying"). Used by a demagogue to circulate rumors and accusations, to ironically say two things 
at once, and to build a relationship with supporters. Rhetoric scholar Jeanne Fahnestock has 
explained that paralipsis II involves mentioning something in the act of denying the mention of 
it." One of the oldest rhetoric texts Rhetoric Ad Herennium explains that "it is of greater 
advantage to create a suspicion by paralipsis than to insist directly on a statement that is 
refutable." Because paralipsis offers accusations without explanations or evidence, it often 
prevents critical thinking and gives a speaker "plausible deniability." For this reason, it has 
often been "used as a tool for damaging opponents." But, more than this, since paralipsis is a 
form of irony, it allows a speaker to say two things at once-denying while at the same time 
affirming. This form of irony connects audiences to demagogues by allowing audiences to 
believe that they see "the behind the scenes" or the "backstage" or the II real" thoughts of the 
demagogue-the thoughts that the demagogue can't or won't acknowledge that they have. This 
can cultivate an "us" versus "them" polarization between in-group audiences and out-group 
audiences and helps create a faux intimacy between demagogues and audiences because it 
allows audiences to believe that they know the II insider only" real and true thoughts of the 
demagogue. Furthermore, not only does paralipsis reward audiences by making them believe 
that they know the demagogue's real thoughts, paralipsis is also rewarding because it is often 
funny. The ironic twist of the demagogue saying the thing that they say that they aren't saying 
is so obvious that it often elicits laughter from audiences, thus rewarding the speaker once 
again because audiences enjoy being entertained, especially at the expense of some abhorred 
outgroup other. 
Argument ad hominem (Latin for II appeal to the person," attacking the person instead of their 
argument). Used by a demagogue to misdirect the audience's attention and attack the character 
of their opponents. Ad hominem is a technique that shifts attention away from the issue by 
refocusing our attention on the person who raised the issue, or at a secondary level, on the 
demagogue's attack on the person. If successful, ad hominem attacks prevent critical thinking, as 
our attention is no longer on the debated question and is instead on the person. According to 
argumentation scholars Frans van Eemeren and Rob Grootendorst there are three variations of 
ad hominem attacks: first, "direct personal attack," which II consists of cutting down one's 
opponent by casting doubt on his expertise, intelligence, character, or good faith." Second, 
11 circumstantial" ad hominem attacks cast doubt on the II motives of one's opponent for his 
standpoint" by making them appear self-interested or biased. And third, ad hominem attacks can 
be based on the charge of tu quoque (appeal to hypocrisy), in which "an attempt is made to find 
a contradiction in one's opponent's words or between his words and his deeds." While there are 
certainly times when arguments about a person's qualifications or character would be relevant 
to consider, demagogues use these kinds of arguments typically to II appeal to our stereotypes or 
prejudices about people" and as distraction, diverting attention away from legitimate issues. Ad 
25  hominem attacks undermine democracy by denying the legitimacy of political opposition. 
Furthermore, ad hominem attacks may help demagogues increase polarization by creating or 
reinforcing in-groups and out-groups by mocking or disparaging" others." 
Argument ad baculum (Latin for "appeal to the stick," or threats of force or intimidation). Used 
by a demagogue to attack and overwhelm opponents. Like other II ad" appeals, demagogues use 
argument ad baculum to shift attention away from the argument. In this case, the demagogue's 
victim and the audience's attention is distracted by the threat of force. Ad baculum tactics might 
include threats of physical violence but could also be things like overwhelming opponents or 
audiences with information so that it is difficult to track the arguments or have time to refute 
them (" flooding the zone") or could be things like threatening to release private or 
embarrassing information about an opponent (doxxing). In all of these ways, and more, 
demagogues can use ad baculum attacks to put II pressure on [opponents] to refrain from taking 
up a position." All ad baculum attacks-whether or not they contain actual physical violence­
have the same end: to use coercion and intimidation to gain compliance. Ad baculum attacks are 
therefore designed to prevent critical thinking by putting pressure on opponents and making it 
difficult to question demagogues or make arguments against them. 
Reification (from the Latin "res" for "thing" -thingification, treating people as objects). Used by 
a demagogue to signal that a demagogue's designated enemies are unworthy of fair treatment. 
11 All reification is a forgetting," wrote philosophers Max Horkheimer and Theodor W. Adorno, 
because reifying rhetoric allows speakers to "forget" that people are not things, that people 
have immanent value (that they have value qua people as opposed to value qua utility or 
capitalism). According to philosopher Axel Honneth, reification "violates moral or ethical 
principles by not treating other subjects in accordance with their characteristics as human 
beings, but instead as numb and lifeless objects-as 'things' or 'commodities.'" Demagogues 
seek to control people as objects, denying people their own free will and autonomy. 
Furthermore, reification is a dangerous polarizing rhetorical strategy that demagogues use to 
divide people into the categories of "real people" and "objects," which allows demagogues to 
deny the perspectives of those who the demagogue treats as objects and is often a pre-condition 
for violence. Since objects cannot speak, they can neither consent nor criticize. Reification 
prevents critical thinking by delegitimizing the voices of the II objects" and in so doing denies 
critics the opportunity to question the demagogue or speak of their concerns. 
Conspiracy (a self-sealing narrative). Used by a demagogue to create suspicion and polarize. 
Conspiracy divides the world into those who know the truth, those who are duped (wittingly or 
not) by the plot, and those who conspire and plot against the rest. As a geme of discourse, 
conspiracy theories are appealing because they reward believers by cynically positioning them 
as more knowledgeable and less gullible than those who are duped by the conspiracy. As 
historian Richard Hofstadter famously noted, conspiracy rhetoric is premised on the II paranoid 
style," which tells an apocalyptic story of a network of agents determined to infiltrate and 
undermine the nation. The paranoid style's "heated exaggeration, suspiciousness, and 
conspiratorial fantasy" creates a coherent narrative of a dangerous yet hidden plot. Conspiracy 
theories rely on the difference between appearance and reality: what is apparent is false and 
hides plotting and subterfuge. Once the narrative of conspiracy and corruption takes hold 
within a political community, it is difficult to dispel. It is difficult for people to abandon the 
conspiracy theories that turn them into heroes. The logic of conspiracy is very compelling: it is a 
26  "self-sealing" narrative, meaning that any holes in the story are quickly covered up by the 
conspiracy. Conspiracy can never be proven true or untrue because no evidence is allowed to 
count against it. If there is no proof to support the conspiracy, the conspiracist claims "they are 
hiding the proof." If the conspiracy is disproved by evidence, the conspiracists claims, "they lie, 
there1s more to the story" and asks, "what are they hiding, why won1t they let us even ask the 
question?" Those who attempt to discredit the conspiracy are stooges or conspirators. The 
demagogue who wields conspiracy counts on distrusting audiences who are both gullible and 
cynical, who are prepared to believe everything and nothing. 
1 See Jennifer Mercieca, Demagogue for President: The Rhetorical Genius of Donald Trump (College 
Station: Texas A&M University), 2020. According to classicist Ernest Barker in ancient Athens" the 
'demagogue' proper had no official position; he simply exercised, in a peculiar degree and with a 
permanent influence, the right of the private member of the assembly to take the initiative and propose a 
policy." Ernest Barker, trans., The Politics of Aristotle (Oxford University Press, 1962), 169, n. 50. 
2 As political scientists Steven Levitsky and Daniel Ziblatt explain in How Democracies Die, 
unaccountable leaders are especially dangerous in democratic governments. Historically democratic 
governments have been overturned by unaccountable leaders who: (1) rejected or showed a weak 
commitment to democratic rules; (2) denied the legitimacy of political opponents; (3) tolerated or 
encouraged violence; and (4) were ready to curtail the civil liberties of opponents and the media. Steven 
Levitsky and Daniel Ziblatt. How Democracies Die: What History Reveals about Our 
Future. (New York: Viking), 2018. 
3 Pew data on trust in government here: https://www.pewresearch.org/politics/2021/05/17 /americans­
see-broad-responsibilities-for-government-little-change-since-2019 /pp 2021-05-17 scope-of-
government 00-04/ 
4 Pew data on polarization here: https://www.pewresearch.org/politics/2014/06/12/political­
polarization-in-the-american-public/ 
5 "Beyond Distrust: How Americans View Their Government," Pew Research Center, 
November 23, 2015, https://www.pewresearch.org/politics/2015/11/23/beyond-distrust-how­
americans-view-their-government/ ; Michael Smith and Lydia Saad, "Economy Top Problem in a 
Crowded Field," Gallup, December 19, 2016, https://news.gallup.com/poll/200105/economy-top­
problemcrowded-field.aspx?g source=link newsv9&g campaign=item 220703&g medium=copy ; 
Frank Newport, "Seven in 10 Dissatisfied with Way U.S. Is Being Governed," Gallup, September 18, 2017, 
https://news.gallup.com/poll/219320/seven-dissatisfied-
governed.aspx?g__source=Politics&g medium=newsfeed&g campaign=tiles ; "Direction of Country," 
Real Clear Politics, https://www.realclearpolitics.com/ epolls/ other/ direction of country-902.html. 
6 Mercieca, Demagogue for President 
7 Trump tweet (account now suspended), archived here: 
https://web.archive.org/web/20160930095103/http://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/781788223 
055994880 
8 Debate transcript: https://www.politico.com/story/2016/10/2016-presidential-debate-transcript-
229519 
9 Trump tweet (account now suspended), archived here: 
https://web.archive.org/web/20161023175826/http://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/701045567 
783219201 
10 ABC News transcript: https:// abcnews.go.com/Politics/ week-transcript-ted-cruz-marco-rubio­
donald-trump/ story?id =37092853 
11 For details see Mercieca, Demagogue for President 
12 CNN transcript: http://www.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1605/04/sitroom.01.html 
27  13 Jennifer Mercieca. "Mueller Report Illustrates Trump's Authoritarian Rhetorical Tactics." Just Security, 
May 1, 2019. https://www.justsecurity.org/63860/mueller-report-illustrates-trumps-authoritarian­
rhetorical-tactics/ . 
14 Trump tweet (account now suspended), archived here: 
https://web.archive.org/web/20190320020646/https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/11079811 
31012628481 . 
15 For details see Mercieca, Demagogue for President 
16 Politico/Morning Consult released a poll that asked Americans, "Donald Trump has said that this 
election could be 'stolen' from him as a result of widespread voter fraud. Do you agree or disagree with 
his statement?" Forty-one percent of all registered voters either strongly or somewhat agreed with 
Trump, and 73 percent of Republicans either strongly or somewhat agreed with Trump. 
17 See Trump Twitter archive: https://www.thetrumparchive.com/?searchbox=%22rigged %22 
18 Robert L. Ivie (1980) "Images of savagery in American justifications for war," Communication 
Monographs, 47:4, 279-294, DOI: 10.1080/03637758009376037 
19 The transcript for Trump's January 6, 2021 speech: 
https://www.npr.org/2021/02/10/966396848/read-trumps-jan-6-speech-a-key-part-of-impeachment­
trial 
20 See: https://clinecenter.illinois.edu/coup-detat-project-cdp/statement jan.8.2021 and 
https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2021/01/13/autogolpe-self-coup-capitol/ 
21 Ryan Goodman and Justin Hendrix. '"Fight for Trump': Video Evidence of Incitement at the Capitol." 
Just Security, February 26, 2021. https://www.justsecurity.org/74335/fight-for-trump-video-evidence­
of -incitement-at-the-capitol/ 
22 Trump tweet (account now suspended), archived here: 
https://web.archive.org/web/20210106230114/http://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/134695497 
0910707712 
23 John Dewey, "Creative Democracy-The Task before Us," in Later Works, 14:224-230, 225-226. 
28 