 
 
 
 
 
 
December 30, 2022  
Mr. Richard A. Sauber  
Special Counsel to the President  
The White House  
Washington, DC  20006  
 
Dear Mr. Sauber:  
 
The Select Committee has concluded its hearings, released its  Report,  and will very soon 
be dissolved (as per the House of Representatives resolution establishing the Committee).  As 
you know, the Committee had entered into an agreement with your office to make available for 
interview  
 Those personnel then provided very 
important information for the Committee’s investigation.  Under that agreement, the Committee 
would do its utmost to protect the identity of .  We now write to address the 
disposition of Committee interview transcripts for those personnel.   
  
As of next  week  when the Committee dissolves, the Committee will no longer exercise 
control over this material, and thus cannot ensure enfo rcement of the commitment to maintain 
the confidentiality of the identity of the witnesses. Pursuant to long -standing House rules, the 
official records of the Committee will be archived and pass into the control of the National 
Archives. We fully share  concern for the safety, security, and reputations of 
our witnesses.   
 
  In coordination with the office of the Speaker of the House, to comply with House rules 
and to honor our commitment to best provide for continuing confidentiality of ope rational details 
and private information, we are hereby providing those transcripts to  now for 
appropriate review , timely return,  and designation of instructions for proper handling  by the 
Archives .  During your review, we recommend that  provide for the official file 
that will reside with the Archives any necessary written guidance regarding the need for 
limitations on release or other sensitivities . Our expectation is  that the transcripts with such 
instructions will become part of the historical record of our investigation maintained by the 
National Archives.     
 Richard S auber  
Page 2 
 
Thank you again for your assistance with our investigation.  We are grateful for your 
assistance in carryin g out this important security task.  
 
     Sincerely,  
 
 
 
 
Bennie G. Thompson        Liz Cheney  
Chairman         Vice Chair  
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
