1 
2 
3 
4 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE 
5 JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL, 
6 U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
7 WASHINGTON, D.C. 
8 
9 
10 
11 DEPOSITION OF: ZAC MARTIN 
12 
13 
14 
15 Wednesday, March 9, 2022 
16 
17 
18 
19 Washington, D.C. 
20 The deposition in the above matter was held via Webex, commencing at 12:36 
21 p.m. 1  1 
2 Appearances: 
3 
4 
5 For the SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE 
6 THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL: 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 , STAFF ASSOCIATE 
INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
CHIEF CLERK 
, INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
14 For THE WITNESS: 
15 
16 Taylan Sumners 
17 Teresa Funk 2  1 
2 
3 - So we'll go on the record at 12:36 p.m. 
Good afternoon --or good morning. This is a transcribed interview of Zachary 
4 Martin conducted by the House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack 
5 on the United States Capitol pursuant to House resolution 503. 
6 At this time, I'd ask the witness to please state your full name and spell your last 
7 name for the record. 
8 
9 
10 Mr. Martin. Zachary Martin, M-a-r-t-i-n. 
Thank you. And hello, Ms. Sumners. 
Ms. Sumners. Hi. I have a couple of questions. We have a few more people 3 
11 on here from last time and it looks maybe some court reporters, so I'm just wanting to get 
12 an idea of who we've got. There's a few more than with the Quicks, so I just want to 
13 make sure I understand who everybody is and everything like that, if that's all right. 
14 •■■• Sure. 
15 So everyone --it's the same number of attorneys as last time, me 
16 and - And rather than us taking notes, we just have a stenographer here that 
17 will be taking down the statements from Mr. Martin here today. Same procedures, 
18 nothing is being shared outside of the committee, not working with DOJ or anything like 
19 that, except for the two exceptions that will go through. But this is just an 
20 efficiency measure that we've been taking on the committee to make sure we're 
21 accurately capturing what the witnesses are saying. 
22 
23 Ms. Sumners. And that's --but you guys didn't do that in the Quicks one, right? 
I don't believe so. I can't remember actually. We've been 
24 doing it for most of them, but I'm not sure. 
25 Ms. Sumners. Okay. I think you guys just took notes in that one. Give me just  1 one second to get settled and talk to him really quick. 
2 So we'll take a quick recess then at 12:37. 
3 [Recess.] 
4 
5 Okay. So we can go back on the record at 12:42 p.m. Eastern Time. 
Okay. So this will be a staff-led interview, and members may join, although I 
6 don't see any on the call right now, but if they were to join, they are also able to ask 
7 questions. 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 But I am an investigative counsel, and in the room with me today is 
investigative counsel. 
So at this time, could counsel please state your name for the record. 
Ms. Sumners. Taylan Sumners. 
- Thank you. And can you just confirm, just in case your paralegal 
13 said anything on the record, that her name is Teresa Funk? 
14 
15 
16 Ms. Sumners. Yes. 
- Thank you very much. 
There's an official reporter transcribing the record of this interview. Please wait 
17 until each question is completed before you begin your response, and we will try to wait 
18 until your response is complete before we ask our next question. The stenographer 4 
19 cannot record nonverbal responses, such as shaking your head, so it is important that you 
20 answer each question with an audible verbal response. And if I see you shaking your 
21 head or nodding, I'll just note for the record and we'll keep going. 
22 So we ask that you provide complete answers based on your best recollection. If 
23 the question is not clear, just please ask for clarification. If you do not know the answer, 
24 just simply say so. 
25 So I'm going to go through a couple of important things about this transcribed  5 
1 interview. First, it's important that you understand that this interview is voluntary. If 
2 at any time you would like to stop speaking with us, that is your choice. Similarly, if at 
3 any point you need to discuss something with your attorney in private, please let us know 
4 and we will take a break so you can have that opportunity. 
5 Second, this interview is not under oath, but because this is a formal congressional 
6 investigation, you are obligated under Federal law to tell the truth, the same as if you 
7 were speaking with the FBI or the Department of Justice. It is unlawful to deliberately 
8 provide false information to Congress. And for this interview, providing false 
9 information could result in criminal penalties for false statements. 
10 Do you understand that, Mr. Martin? 
11 
12 
13 Mr. Martin. Yes, I do. 
- Thank you very much. 
Third, you are not obligated to keep the fact of this interview and what we discuss 
14 confidential. You are free to tell whomever you wish that you met with us, including the 
15 prosecutor or judge in your case, or you can tell no one at all. That's really up to you. 
16 Fourth, the select committee is separate and independent from the Department 
17 of Justice. We have no involvement with the prosecutions, and DOJ is not a partner 
18 with the select committee in its investigation. The select committee also is not a party 
19 to your criminal case, and we are --it is not agreeing to submit anything on your behalf to 
20 the judge, nor can we make any representation whether if you tell the judge that you met 
21 with us, that the judge will be more favorable to you during sentencing. 
22 Fifth, we have agreed with your attorney not to share the substance of what you 
23 say with the Department of Justice prior to your sentencing. But there are two possible 
24 exceptions: If you told us about evidence of a crime that we thought law enforcement 
25 was unaware of or, if we had reason to believe you lied during this interview, then we  6 
1 would be obligated to tell DOJ or another appropriate law enforcement agency. 
2 And if you tell the judge that you met with us, please understand that may prompt 
3 questions from the judge about what you said and whether it is consistent with your prior 
4 statements and acceptance of responsibility. And if the judge starts asking questions, 
5 we may get asked to respond and divulge what you said. 
6 Logistically, you know, if you need any breaks or if you need to speak with 
7 Ms. Sumners about something, just let us know, happy to take a pause and move on from 
8 there. 
9 And just to reiterate because is also on the call, if both of us start 
10 asking a question at the same time, or if a member joins and multiple people are asking 
11 and you can't hear us for whatever reason, just say so. We'll stop. I'll repeat the 
12 question. And if you don't understand, please just ask me to clarify because that 
13 happens from time to time. 
14 Does that all make sense? 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 Mr. Martin. Yep. 
- Okay. Thank you. 
EXAMINATION 
BY 
Q So let's start with a little bit of your background. How old are you, 
20 Mr. Martin? 
21 A I was born in 1976, so 47, 45? I don't know. I'm bad with numbers, but, 
22 yeah, I was born in 1976. 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A 
Q What month and what date in 1976? 
February 18th. 
Okay. So 46 then. Where do you currently live?  1 
2 
3 
4 A I live in --I have a Rogersville, Missouri address. I live in rural Rogersville. 
Q Okay. And have you --how long have you lived there? 
A 16 years. 
Q Okay. Where did you grow up before --or where did you live before that? 
5 I'm sorry. 7 
6 A Before that I was kind of traveling around in an RV. I kind of like lived in an 
7 RV and just moved from place to place. My oldest daughter is 16 years old today 
8 actually, and that's when we --when I --when we were pregnant with my first kid we 
9 moved to Rogersville, and actually, like, bought a house and, you know, settled down. 
10 So before that I --I traveled. I went from --I mean, I lived out in California for a while. 
11 I lived in Colorado for a while. 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 Q Okay. 
A Yeah, just kind of traveled around in an RV basically. 
Q Thank you. And happy birthday to your daughter. 
A Thanks. 
Q So, well, what is your educational background? 
A I don't really have any college --I don't have any college education. I have 
18 a GED, and that's really the, I mean, the extent of it. You know, I have some --I've done 
19 a lot of --I've had a lot of different jobs, so, I mean, I consider that part of my education --
20 
21 
22 
23 Q Okay. 
A --but, yeah, that's --basically GED and that's about it. 
Q So what is your current job? 
A My current job is I'm --I have an event property. I do like weddings and 
24 events, festivals, gatherings, school dances, you know. I have a barn and we do --we 
25 host whatever kind of stuff they do there. I also have a disc golf course out there.  8 
1 That's just basically a, you know --it's a donation thing. It's a private course, but, you 
2 know, it's not really part of the business, but people come out and play and if they want 
3 to donate something they can, so --
4 Q It sounds like your daughter will have a lot of fun places to have our 16th 
5 birthday party. 
6 A Oh, yeah. Yeah. She's got --well, they're going to Eureka Springs for 
7 the --for her, I guess, birthday weekend, so that's going to be cool. 
8 Q Well, thank you for that background information. We'll move on now to 
9 talk about the lead-up to January 6th. So this is going to be --these next set of 
10 questions are just to orient you to like President --former President Trump's first term, so 
11 really 2016 when he gets elected until before the November 2020 election. So in that 
12 timeframe, what would you say your level of political engagement was? 
13 A Well, the first full year of Trump's --I actually voted for Obama. My 
14 mom --my mom was still alive. You know, she was --my mom was hard-core 
15 Republican, conservative, whatever. And so I was like --I was the opposite. And so 
16 this was like before, you know, like basically 2016 when all that was going down. I was 
17 totally against Trump. I --1 did not --1 was like everybody else. I, you know, you know, 
18 whatever, just I was like everybody else. I didn't like him. 
19 And then, you know, I mean, I didn't like him for a long time and it took me a while 
20 to actually like --the whole Russian collusion thing and all that, I started watching some of 
21 that and started paying attention to it, and it just kind of like --it was just annoying and it 
22 just seemed like something was off and, you know, so I just decided to give Trump a 
23 chance and actually listen to him. 
24 This was probably like a year or so into his --I believe it might have been like his 
25 first --maybe the second State of the Union, but that's what I listened to. And after I  9 
1 listened to that, I was like --I was like, I kind of think this guy actually cares about this 
2 country. I started to change my opinion. 
3 And then once I realized that --what had actually been happening, that everybody 
4 had been lying about everything, at least in my opinion, I mean, it just --it just put me in a 
5 political --you know, it just --it motivated me to sort of, you know, stand for what I now 
6 believed in, which was, you know, our country. And I was actually proud of America and 
7 I was proud to be American, versus before, I was like the exact opposite. Really, I was 
8 like arguing with people, you know. I'd go out and like argue with people, and so --
9 Q Thank you, Mr. Martin. I appreciate the background on the political views, 
10 but --so the specific question was more about how engaged you were. So I'll try to take 
11 what I get --what I'm gathering, it sounds like you got more politically engaged as 
12 President Trump's term wore on? 
13 A Yeah, absolutely. Like as soon as I went to --I mean, as soon as I switched 
14 sides, I guess, I was pretty heavily --I was a lot heavier politically engaged for sure. 
15 Q Okay. Thank you very much. So how --I heard you mention listening to 
16 President Trump's State of the Union, so direct source. Were you also watching any 
17 news at the time? 
18 A No, you know, I really didn't pay a whole lot of attention to the news at the 
19 time, but it was all over with the, you know, with the whole Russian collusion thing. And 
20 so, I mean, I couldn't help, because everywhere I went and everywhere, it was just like 
21 that's what they were talking about. So I wasn't really --I didn't really watch a whole lot 
22 of news. 
23 Q Okay. What would you say your primary source of political information 
24 was? 
25 A I mean, before --before that, before I switched sides, I mean, I would have  10 
1 to say it would have to be the news, it would have to be television and like NPR, you 
2 know, radio, NPR, BBC. I listened to NPR a lot back then, so, I mean, a lot, you know, of 
3 that. I wasn't a big TV person, but I listened to the radio quite a bit. 
4 Q And after you, for lack of a better phrase, switched sides or began to support 
5 President Trump, did you continue to listen to NPR or did you listen to other radio? 
6 A Yeah, I pretty much --I pretty much got the --I got the clue. I figured out 
7 that the mainstream media was pretty much not trustworthy at that point in time, so, I 
8 mean, that included the radio and everything. So I started to look for other sources of 
9 news. 
10 Q Okay. And did you look --I'm going to rattle off some websites, and I'm 
11 basically just going to ask for each one if that's where you went to find political news. 
12 So did you go to Facebook? 
13 
14 
15 A Yep, I was definitely on Facebook. 
Q Okay. Parler? 
A I was on barely, hardly. I mean, Parler didn't work out very well, I don't 
16 think, so --but, yeah, not very much. 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A Reddit? 
No. 
Q All right. Snapchat? 
A No. 
Q Telegram? 
A Not --not until just like the last --just recently, you know, not that long ago. 
Q So not during the time period we --
A Yeah. Yeah. 
Q Twitter?  11 
1 A I mean, I really --I mean, it was pretty much just Facebook honestly. Like 
2 Twitter, no. I mean, I think I --I don't remember when I started to get on Twitter, but, I 
3 mean, I wasn't on it very much. 
4 Q So fair to say Twitter, you might have had an account but you didn't really 
5 use it? 
6 A Yeah, and I definitely never posted anything. If I used it, it was just to, like, 
7 read, you know, get information. 
8 
9 
10 
11 Q 
A 
Q 
A Sure. And only a couple more. The Donald.Win? 
No, no. 
How about 4chan? 
I wasn't aware of 4chan. I never really got on there. I mean, I saw posts 
12 from 4chan, you know, from like people that would make, you know, YouTube videos 
13 back then before they got banned from YouTube, but yeah. So, I mean, I was aware of 
14 4chan, but I never physically personally got on 4chan. 
15 
16 Q 
A So did you see 4chan things on YouTube? 
I saw people like, you know --you're probably talking about, you know --I'm 
17 sure you're talking about the Q posts and that kind of thing. So there was people that 
18 were, you know, going through that and they were talking about that kind of stuff on 
19 YouTube, you know. And they were just sort of decoding what does this mean, you 
20 know, what --you know, so, yeah. 
21 
22 Q 
A So did you use Facebook and YouTube more than these other sites? 
Yeah, definitely --basically that's it. I mean, Facebook was it. I mean, so 
23 that was --that was pretty much my main thing, but --
24 Q And were you searching --actively searching out news or did it come 
25 through to you, you know, on the news feed?  12 
1 A Well, no, I mean, I wasn't really actively searching. I didn't mostly just 
2 because of the links, you know, just type of stuff I was looking at, it kind of just came to 
3 me basically. And I wasn't --I mean, I didn't really have a whole lot of different news 
4 sources. I'm just trying to remember, like, who I listened to back then, because, I mean, 
5 it's changed now. 
6 But, I mean, there was a few different, you know, IPOT, I-P-O-T, 1776, a couple 
7 different --you know, there were VouTubers back then, and they were --you know, they 
8 just basically did investigative stories, you know, and put a bunch of stuff together, and 
9 then put their thing out, and was, like, this is what we think, and almost all those people 
10 were very do your own research, you know, Don't take my word for it, you know, 
11 make --the whole thing about all this was teaching us to do our own research and to not 
12 take your word for it. 
13 So, I mean, I would Google stuff, you know, but I really, you know, I basically just 
14 talked to other people physically like, you know, whether through Facebook or, you 
15 know, usually just local, local people from around here, you know. 
16 Q Got it. And do you remember any of the other names of the channels or 
17 the people? 
18 A Sure. My favorite ones back then, I mean, I love Amazing Polly. She 
19 was --she's really cool. 
20 
21 Q 
A Is that P-a-u-1-i-e? 
P --no, P-o-1-1-y, Amazing Polly, yeah. Actually, who was back then? 
22 Those were my --I mean, I don't know. I'll come up with some other ones. 
23 
24 
25 Q Sure. 
A I can't think of them right now, but --
Q That's okay.  A I can give you the list of the ones I currently listen to, if you want. 1 
2 Q We'll get there, but thank you. So did you follow President Trump on 
3 Face book? 13 
4 A Yeah, I mean, I would say, I mean, if he --1 don't really remember him being 
5 very active on Facebook, like actual --actually President Trump. But I was definitely 
6 along --you know, I followed people, and I was --I would join a group that was supporting 
7 of Trump for sure. 
8 Q Okay. So let's move a little bit to after the election. So immediately after 
9 the November 2020 election, did you believe that the election had been stolen? 
10 
11 
12 
13 but --
14 A Yes, yes, I did. 
Q And what gave you --what made you believe that? 
A Well, I don't know how to put all --I mean, that's a big --there's a lot to that, 
Q Well, let's start with like who were you following that gave you information 
15 to believe that the election had been stolen? 
16 A Well, okay, for one thing, I mean, it was plainly obvious to me that, you 
17 know, Biden didn't campaign, and if he did campaign, like I don't think anybody showed 
18 up. And if Trump threw a rally, it was like hundreds of thousands of people. So like 
19 that --that right there was like night and day for me. It's like, there's no way. 
20 I mean, Biden had lost. He had run for President two previous times and not 
21 made it, but then this time he magically got more votes in the history of America? 
22 mean, nothing made sense to me. Nothing made sense. It was just all to me plainly 
23 obvious that, you know, the bellwether counties, I mean, that's never happened. 
24 Nobody's ever won that many bellwether counties and lost the election before. There's 
25 so many different things, I mean, I could just go on and on about that. I mean, that's  14 
1 why I didn't think that the election was legit. 
2 Q So you had --fair to say you had strong views about it. And it sounds like, 
3 and correct me if I'm wrong, so were some of these ideas percolating before the 2020 
4 election? 
5 A I mean, I pretty much assumed that like Trump was going to win for sure, 
6 yeah. I mean, I thought he was going to win. I think everybody thought he was going 
7 to win. There was no possible way that Biden was going to win the election, so, yeah, I 
8 mean, those ideas were definitely percolating before that. 
9 Q Do you remember seeing messages by former President Trump or people in 
10 groups that you were in talking about these ideas that you're mentioning, you know, 
11 Bide n's not campaigning or Trump's rallies have hundreds of thousands of people, were 
12 you seeing on that online beforehand? 
13 A Yeah, that's all over --yeah, that was all over, you know, he wasn't 
14 campaigning. I mean, he was hiding in his basement, yeah. 
15 Q Did you ever --
16 A I don't know. I mean, it was everywhere. I mean, that was just --I mean, 
17 that was in my sleep so, you know, it's like that was just common knowledge. 
18 Q So you mentioned earlier that --and I think this might be --you were 
19 referencing Q that taught you to do your own research. Did you ever check the veracity 
20 of those claims? 
21 
22 A 
Q The veracity of what claims? 
That Biden didn't campaign and that President Trump had hundreds of 
23 thousands of people at his rallies? 
24 A I mean, I don't --I don't know if I understand that question, but, no, I 
25 never --I mean, I didn't need to check --I didn't need to check that out. I mean, that  15 
1 was just --that was just right in my --I mean, that was just obvious. That wasn't 
2 anything I needed to research. I mean, that was --I mean, yeah. I didn't check the 
3 veracity of the claims. I don't know about the claims, what claims you're talking about, 
4 but --
5 
6 
7 or --
8 Q 
A 
Q Well, I'm just saying --
If you're talking about Q posts that claimed that he wasn't doing his research 
No, no, Mr. Martin. I'm just saying you stated these, what you call to be 
9 facts. So I was asking you if you verified them in any way? 
10 A No, no, I didn't --that's just my opinion. I didn't --I'm saying my opinion 
11 and I believe that everybody else's opinion probably too, at least in my realm of people, 
12 was that Biden was not campaigning and that he couldn't draw a crowd even if he wanted 
13 to. Even if he was campaigning, it was like a bunch of empty circles in a basketball 
14 court. 
15 Q So given your strong views about the election, following the election and 
16 before January 6th, did you participate in any sort of rallies or any sort of, you know, 
17 political activity that alleged --about alleged voter fraud? 
18 
19 
20 A 
Q 
A No. No, I didn't. 
No. Were you participating in on line chats or groups? 
No. Basically all I did was Facebook, you know, and I would just --I would 
21 find stuff, and I would repost it basically on Facebook, so, you know, basically arguing 
22 with a bunch of my old friends that I used to have that --before I switched sides, you 
23 know. Like they're calling me racist and meth head and all kinds of stuff. I mean, I was 
24 just trying to convince --to show people what I thought was actually happening, what I 
25 thought was the truth. And that's basically --and it was all on Facebook. I really didn't  1 go anywhere else besides Facebook at the time. 
2 
3 Q And at the time, was Q still an active community? 
A Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, they stopped --I think they stopped like, you 16 
4 know, before the 2020 election. I don't remember exactly when the post stopped going, 
5 but it seems like almost up until before --right, you know, the election. 
6 Q Great. And I know you said you didn't attend any political rallies, so just for 
7 the record, that you did not attend the November 14, 2020, or December 12, 2020, rallies 
8 in Washington, D.C. to --
9 
10 
11 
12 A No, I did not. 
Q Okay. Do you remember hearing about those rallies on Facebook? 
A 
Q I don't, actually. 
Understood. And also between --so after the election and before 
13 January 6th, did you make any political donations to groups that were challenging the 
14 2020 election results? 
15 
16 
17 A I did not. 
Q Great. Thank you very much. 
And now we're going to move sort of into January 6th. Do you remember really 
18 like what made you want to go to Washington, D.C.? 
19 A Not specifically, but, you know, it was just --you know, I just --it --Trump, 
20 you know, the --everybody was like we've got to go show that we support, you know, 
21 and just show our faces and, you know, this is a thing. It was --we were called to show 
22 up and show our support, you know, and just show that we think --oh, sorry --just show 
23 that we think that, you know, that the election was stolen and, you know, hopefully 
24 somebody could do something. 
25 Q So when you say you were called, who called you?  1 A That's just kind of like a --it's a loose term sort of. It was just --we were 
2 just called as patriots to show up and show our support. I mean, I --it's a loose term. 
3 don't know specifically who called, you know, but like there's a movie that was made 
4 called "The Called," and it was about --it's about, you know, making that trip to D.C. on 
5 January 6th. 
6 
7 
8 Q Okay. But --
A 
Q It's called "The Called," so --
1 hear you. You mentioned President Trump, were --did his 17 
9 December 19th tweet calling for people to gather in Washington, D.C. on January 6th for 
10 a, quote/unquote, "wild protest," did that have any influence on your wanting to go to 
11 D.C.? 
12 A I don't --I don't know that it did. I'd say, I mean, it probably did. I mean, 
13 you know, it's like, I mean, but I --not heavily, no. I mean, I was probably 
14 already --either --I'd either already made my decision that I wasn't going to go or not, or 
15 I was. You know, I was or wasn't going to go, but --
16 
17 
18 Q So what --
A So --
Q You mentioned called. Why did you think you had to be in D.C. on 
19 January 6th? 
20 A Just to show my support as a patriot for America and that I believe that the 
21 election was, you know --the election was stolen, and I believe that. And I just wanted 
22 to show that I just want to be a person, a face that was there, standing with all the other 
23 people that were there saying that, Hey, we're all in this together. We all believe that 
24 this happened, so --
25 Q So I'll be more direct. I'm sorry for not being clear. What was special  18 
1 about the date, January 6th? Like why that date? Why not January 7th or 5th or 4th? 
2 
3 A 
Q Oh, I have no idea. I didn't have anything special about the date. 
Okay. So what made you realize that January 6th would be the date that 
4 people would gather in Washington, D.C.? 
5 A I mean, I was just --this is another thing, it was just common knowledge. 
6 Everybody --everybody was talking about that this was --are we going to D.C. on the 6th 
7 or what, you know, this is our last --last chance to do anything, if anything, just show our 
8 support. I mean --
9 Q But I think --
10 
11 A 
Q 
12 support? 
13 A I don't know why the 6th was the day. I have no idea, but --
So why did --where did you get the idea it was the last chance to show 
Because, I mean, the election was, you know --the election had been stolen, 
14 and we were just called to --I mean, I don't know why it's the last chance or whatever, 
15 but I just showed up there to show my support, that I believe that the election was 
16 stolen, and that, you know, we --we're, as people of the United States, we believe this. 
17 So, I mean, that's --I don't know, man. I don't know how to exactly answer your 
18 question on that one, but --
19 Q That's okay if you don't know. So let's talk about the groups that you were 
20 paying attention to on line at this point. Do you remember which Face book groups you 
21 were in or actively engaging with? 
22 A I really wasn't a group person back then. I mean, I was probably --I 
23 probably followed a couple groups. I don't remember exactly. None of them were big. 
24 I never met up with any of them. I never really had conversations with them. Basically 
25 they were just groups that I would like grab memes and information from and, you know,  19 
1 share it on Facebook. 
2 I wasn't --I wasn't heavily involved in any political groups or activities. I never 
3 went to --like I said earlier, I've never went to any kind of group event, rally, or protest or 
4 anything. I never did that. I basically just stayed on Facebook. I'd get up in the 
5 morning, I'd go through my Face book, and I would find stuff that I thought was truthful, 
6 and try and persuade friends of mine that didn't see it to, you know, Hey, this is my --you 
7 might just question this, you know. But so that really was the extent of my group, you 
8 know --like I didn't go anywhere beyond Facebook basically. 
9 Q Got it. Do you remember specific --I'm not a big Facebook user --like 
10 things like hashtags or big posts that you reposted? 
11 A No, not really. I really don't remember that stuff. I mean, I'm sorry, I just 
12 don't. 
13 Q Do you remember specific accounts? I know you mentioned two earlier. 
14 Do you remember any others from that time period that you were reposting more often 
15 than others? 
16 
17 
18 A 
Q 
A Man, I'm really thinking hard here. 
It's okay. 
Man, I will. I mean, I should be able to remember. I mean, and they're 
19 just like VouTube people that were, you know --that were just doing stuff, you know, 
20 putting out little VouTube videos, and I can't --I just can't remember who they were right 
21 now. 
22 Q Okay. Well, if they come to you later and you want to let us know, we can 
23 always talk with you another time about it. 
24 
25 A 
Q Okay. 
So I guess then, besides President Trump who you say influenced you to  20 
1 come to D.C., were there any other elected officials that you heard about who wanted 
2 you to come to Washington, D.C.? 
No, no, I don't --I don't remember specifically anybody. 3 
4 A 
Q Okay. And let me --and I'll just ask this more clearly for the record, did you 
5 think President Trump wanted patriots to show up in Washington, D.C. on January 6th? 
6 
7 
8 A 
Q 
A Yes. 
And what did you think President Trump wanted the patriots to do? 
Just show support for America and our freedom and our God-given rights. 
9 mean, that's what we felt --we felt like our rights were being taken away from us, so --
10 
11 Q 
A Because of the election? 
That's what he wanted us to do was to show up and show support for 
12 America and what America stands for, the Constitution, and our rights, and that's --that's 
13 it. I mean, that's all I knew anyways. 
14 Q Right. But when you say show support for things that are getting trampled, 
15 was it the 2020 election that trampled your rights or the Constitution? I'm just trying to 
16 figure out what --
17 
18 A 
Q Trampled, I don't remember saying trampled anything. 
Whatever the word you used, you said violated or you wanted to show 
19 support for rights and the Constitution. 
20 
21 
22 A 
Q 
A Okay. 
But why did you feel the need to show support? 
Because we felt that our rights were being taken away, our freedoms were 
23 being taken away. I mean, our election --we believe that the election was stolen, so, 
24 like, that's why. 
25 Q Thank you. That was actually --that was my question, so I appreciate the  21 
1 answer. 
2 So let's talk about heading to D.C. When did you leave for Washington, D.C.? 
3 A I believe the 5th, I believe. It might have been the 4th, I think. We drove 
4 straight there, so --I mean, we didn't stop anywhere, so I think we got there the night of 
5 the 5th. I think we left like super early in the morning, if I remember right, but I could 
6 be wrong. I'm actually horrible with time. Time is like --it just doesn't work well. 
7 Like I just can't remember time very well, but just for future questions. 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 Q That's fine. Who did you travel with? 
A Who did I travel with? 
Q Yes. 
A Of course, the Quick brothers and my friend Kari Kelly. 
Q Is that Stephen and Michael Quick? 
A Yes. 
Q Do you remember Kelly ever calling it a caravan that you were driving? 
15 Did --do you remember Kelly ever calling it a caravan whenever you were driving? 
16 
17 A No. No, I don't remember that. 
Q That's fine. Do you remember where you stayed in Washington, D.C. or if 
18 you stayed in the District at all? 
19 A Yeah, we stayed just out of town, you know, maybe 30 minutes away. And 
20 I don't remember the name of the town, but I --you could probably remind me, and then 
21 I would remember it. It was a historic town that I found out later. 
22 Q That's okay. That's totally fine. Just so --in your sense of what would 
23 happen on January 6th, you arrive on January 5th. Did you think there would be any 
24 violence on January 6th? 
25 A No. I mean, I --I didn't. I really wasn't expecting it. I didn't think there  22 
1 was going to be any violence at all actually. I mean, we didn't know what was going to 
2 happen, you know. It was going to be a big event. We didn't know if there was going 
3 to be some sort of, you know, anti-pro --you know, protests against us, but, I mean, 
4 I --we weren't expecting it. I wasn't worried about it. I wasn't like --I wasn't worried 
5 about violence in any way. 
6 Q Did you --so you were paying attention to a lot of Q posts at this time. Do 
7 you remember seeing any Q posts about violence on January 6th? 
8 A No. No, I don't remember. I actually don't think there's any Q posts 
9 about violence anywhere. 
10 
11 Q 
A What about Q posts that talk about a storm coming on January 6th? 
I don't know. I don't remember specifically. I do know that the word 
12 "storm" is used in Q posts, but I don't remember specifically anything about January 6th. 
13 Q So you don't remember a post talking about the importance of January 6th? 
14 A I don't remember that actually. And I wasn't like a huge --I mean, I didn't, 
15 like, follow the Q posts like every single day or anything. I mean, I really didn't even 
16 follow them. I never personally even looked them up. I never got on the board and 
17 looked at them. I always just would hear about them through, you know, other people 
18 so --that looked it up and were talking about it. So I'm not like super --I'm not Mister, 
19 you know, follow the Q thing. I'm not writing a book on it or anything. I don't really 
20 know a whole much --you know, a bunch about it, but --
21 
22 Q 
A I have to ask, the hat you're wearing, what is it? 
I believe it's Don Q, and I believe that's Don Quixote. A friend of mine gave 
23 it to me. He bought it at an antique store, something like that, or like a thrift store or 
24 something, so --I mean, I don't know. 
25 Q Okay. Are you aware that the Q on your hat is quite similar to the Q used  23 
1 in QAnon posts? 
2 A Well, the Q--Qs are Qs. I mean, so every Q is similar to a Q used in the 
3 QAnon post, right? 
Q That's fine. So on January 6th did you attend the rally at the Ellipse? 
A Yes, yep. 4 
5 
6 Ms. Sumners. And could we just take a minute really quick? Sorry. I need to 
7 run to the restroom. 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 Yeah. While go on recess for 5 minutes or so at 1:20 p.m. 
Ms. Sumners. That's fine. Thank you. 
- Thanks. 
[Recess.] 
BY 
Q Let's go back on the record at 1:26 p.m. 
Okay. So I think right before we took a break, Mr. Martin, I was asking if you had 
15 attended the rally and you said yes. Do you remember what time that you all got there? 
16 A I mean, not exactly, but I would say it's probably somewhere around like 
17 9:00 a.m., something like that. 
18 
19 
20 Q So pretty early? 
A Yeah, pretty early. 
Q Do you remember Kelly posting at 5:37 a.m., Good morning, America. We 
21 are leaving our room and headed to the action? 
22 A I mean, I don't know. I don't know that I remember that specifically. 
23 mean, you saying that, yes, that does seem like she did post something like that, but I 
24 don't remember it specifically. 
25 Q That's fine. But do you have any sense of what she meant by the action?  24 
1 A I have no idea what, you know. I'm assuming the millions of people that 
2 were there. I mean, that's some action. 
3 Q Did you --do you --did you think at the time there were millions of people 
4 there? 
5 A I thought there was going to be a whole lot of people there. I didn't know 
6 how many people were going to be there, but I knew there was going to be a lot of 
7 people. 
8 
9 Q 
A So what speakers were you excited to see at the rally? 
I actually don't even --I didn't even look that up. I didn't even know who 
10 was going to speak honestly. So I guess none of them, besides Trump. I mean, I kind 
11 of figured Trump was going to --you know, for sure was going to say something and 
12 then --I mean, I really didn't even look into it honestly. I just --I was just showing up to 
13 support, you know. 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q I guess, but you knew President Trump would speak? 
Yeah, yep. 
All right. And did you hear President Trump speak? 
Yes, yep. 
Great. Do you remember him saying something, and I'm going to quote 
19 him here: "And if you don't fight like hell, you're not going to have a country anymore?" 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A Yeah. Yeah, I remember him saying something like that. 
Okay. Do you remember how you took it at the time? 
No, not really. I mean --
Okay. But at the time --
1 mean, there was a whole lot of --there was a whole lot going on there. 
25 Sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt. But, I mean, I don't think he just stopped, you know.  25 
1 I'm pretty sure that there was --he continued on with the speech and, I mean, so --
2 Q He did, but I'm asking you about the specific sentence and how you took it to 
3 mean. So if you remember other things about his speech that influenced how you took 
4 it to mean, that's all I'm interested in hearing. 
5 A Right. Well, I mean, you know, I --I assume it meant, you know, we have to 
6 get out and we have to vote and we have to, you know, show our support for the country, 
7 yes. That's what fighting means, you know. We've got to go out and lawfully do the 
8 right thing and show our support. 
9 
10 Q 
A Show your support. Can I ask, show your support for whom? 
America, the country, our freedom. That's what I'm showing support for. 
11 It's not a specific person. So Trump --Trump really is not the reason that we were there. 
12 Trump was the President at the time when the election was stolen, but that's not why we 
13 were there. We were there for the Constitution. We were there for America. We 
14 were there for our freedom. We were there for our rights. We were there because 
15 we believe that the election had been fraud --was fraudulent. 
16 Q were you going to ask something? 
17 He answered my question with the last part of his answer. 
18 That's all. 
19 BY 
20 Q Got it. 
21 So if you weren't exactly there to see President Trump, you were there to protect 
22 the Constitution, but do you remember President Trump saying anything about Vice 
23 President Pence? 
24 A I believe he said something along the lines he has the opportunity to 
25 probably to do something, you know. He could --you know, I don't remember exactly  26 
1 specifically what he said, but he did say that, you know, hopefully he does the right thing, 
2 is what --
3 
4 
5 
6 thing? 
7 Q Okay. 
A --you know. 
Q And do you remember knowing what President Trump meant by do the right 
A Not --not really. I really didn't understand how all that worked, but, I 
8 mean --at the time I didn't --I didn't really know what that meant, no. I'll just leave it at 
9 that. 
10 
11 Q Okay. But --
A I wasn't 100 percent sure exactly how that process worked as far as, you 
12 know, what went on. 
13 Q Would you --were the people around you talking about what Vice President 
14 Pence could do? 
15 
16 A I don't remember that, no. I don't think so. 
Q You don't remember hearing anything about the certification of the 2020 
17 election? 
18 A Right, yeah. I mean, I can --yeah. I mean, I guess he would --he --I don't 
19 exactly know, but he --I guess he was --had the opportunity to at least put it off for a 
20 little bit to do some more investigation onto the election. So as far as certifying it that 
21 day, I guess, yes, that was --I --as far as I understand, that's what I understood at that 
22 point in time. I --you know. 
23 Q Okay. Is it --so let me just try to clarify. At the time, it was your 
24 understanding that Vice President Pence had some authority to delay the certification of 
25 the 2020 election?  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 A 
Q I did think that, yes. 
Okay. Are you --
Can I ask a quick follow-up, if you don't mind? 
-Yeah. 
What were your views? I guess, how did you view Vice 
6 President Pence on January 6th? 27 
7 Mr. Martin. I --I mean, I definitely didn't really --I don't think I trusted him, you 
8 know, I don't think I trusted him. I didn't --I wasn't sure that he was going to do the 
9 right thing, so I mean --
10 BY 
11 
12 Q 
A What in your mind was the right thing? 
Like I said, I don't really understand the process, so the right thing --I don't 
13 know exactly what that --how to answer that question. But the right thing would've 
14 been to, you know, put it off and do some more, you know, like investigations on the 
15 election. I still --I mean, I still think that there should be more investigation. 
16 Q So let me ask a follow-up then. Going back to what you said, you were 
17 there to support the Constitution and you like to investigate and do your own research, 
18 where were you getting the idea that Vice President Pence had a constitutional power 
19 and right to delay the certification of the electoral count? 
20 A I don't actually remember where I got that information. And like I said, I 
21 don't really know --I didn't really understand the process at the time, so, I mean --
22 
23 Q 
A So let me ask a more direct question. Why did you think that was true? 
Just because that was what the word around was. That's what people 
24 were saying, you know. It's like, I don't know. I didn't really look into that. I mean, I 
25 wasn't expecting --I wasn't expecting anything to happen, honestly. I didn't think it was  28 
1 going to go through. I really thought that it was all set in stone, that if they were going 
2 to push it through it was --that's the way it was going to be. 
3 I didn't think Pence was going to do anything. I didn't think he was going to do 
4 whatever it is he could do to put it off. So I don't know where I got that information. 
5 don't know where, you know, where specifically I heard that from, but it was just sort of 
6 whatever, the word on the street. 
7 Q But why did you take the word on the street to be true? Is it because it 
8 came from President Trump's mouth at that time? 
9 A I actually didn't take it to be true. I honestly didn't understand the whole 
10 process. I mean, all I --I didn't think anything was going to happen. I didn't think 
11 Pence was going to do the right thing. I didn't think he was going to do the wrong thing. 
12 I didn't --I didn't think anything. I was just there to show my support. I thought the 
13 election was going to get certified just like it was. I didn't think anybody was going to 
14 stop anything, anything was going to happen. 
15 Q So were you aware that day when --were you aware --sounds like you were 
16 aware that the election was getting certified on January 6th? 
17 A That's what I thought was going to happen. I mean --
18 Q Was that --and was that a reason you went to D.C. on January 6th to protest 
19 the certification of the election? 
20 A No. I just went to show my support for America and just be another 
21 person, just another human there to show my support for our American freedom. 
22 That's all, the only reason I went there. 
23 Q Okay. Do you remember President Trump talking about marching to the 
24 Capitol during his speech? 
25 A Yeah. Yeah, he's --yep.  1 
2 Q 
A 29 
And had you planned to march to the Capitol that day? 
I had not planned to go to the Capitol. We were --we were not --we were 
3 freezing for one thing. I was --I was freezing. My feet were wet. It was --it was a 
4 bad --it was really cold. So we were going to leave immediately afterwards. After the 
5 speech we were going to leave and go back to the hotel room. 
6 Q All right. And I think, because we talked to the Quicks, can you explain to 
7 me, then, why you did go to the Capitol? 
8 A Yes. So like Kari had to go --she had to go to the bathroom at one point. 
9 And she's like, Well, I'm going to go. And so we were like, Well, we are never going to 
10 see her again, you know, like because there's a million people here. So she left 
11 and --but we made a --we talked and we were like, if we get separated after the speech, 
12 we'll all meet up at the monument, the Washington Monument. 
13 So we went up there and --after the speech and we waited, and we tried to call 
14 her, but there was no phone reception. Phones were --her phone was dead. And we 
15 were up there for a good 45 minutes, and then she finally got her phone charged. And 
16 she said --she texted and the said she was at the --up towards the Capitol. And she 
17 said, you know, she's like, it's crazy or whatever up here, and so we're like, Okay, so we'll 
18 just start heading that way. 
19 So we started walking that way, and this was a good --a good amount of time 
20 after Trump was even done with his speech. So we both started walking that way, and 
21 then we finally get up there, and we meet up with her by a statue, right in front of the 
22 ponds there. 
23 Q Okay. So what were you seeing before you met up with her? 
24 A What was I seeing? We were --I mean, it was actually just --I mean, we 
25 walked straight up the lawn. We didn't walk up the street. So we walked straight up  30 
1 the lawn and there was, I mean just --I mean, there was just a ton of people there, just 
2 patriotic people, I mean, old people, young people. There was no --no violence or 
3 anything. There was people selling, you know, American flags or, you know, had flags 
4 and hats and all that kind of stuff. I honestly didn't even see anybody like speaking or 
5 anything like that on the way there. So it was --
6 Q Okay. Did you hear anybody talk about the Capitol having been breached 
7 on your way there? 
8 A No, I didn't hear anything about the Capitol being breached. Kari said that 
9 there was tear gas. You know, before we left, she said that there were like --before we 
10 left to like start heading that way, she said that there was tear gas being, you know, put 
11 out. So --but that was about all I heard, you know. That was the extent of what I 
12 heard, and, I mean, I didn't hear about anything, like, I didn't know anybody was inside 
13 the Capitol or anything like that. 
14 
15 Q 
A What did you take the tear gas to mean? 
I --that --I don't know. I mean, I have no --I can't answer that question, 
16 what did it mean? I mean, I don't know. 
17 Q Did you think there would be --there was any violence happening at the 
18 time? 
19 A I mean, I guess --I mean, generally when tear gas is deployed, it's like to 
20 push a crowd back for, you know, from whatever it is. I don't know. I mean --
21 
22 
23 Q 
A 
Q 
24 anything? 
25 A Okay. So were you worried as you were walking to the Capitol? 
Repeat that. 
Were you worried at all when you were walking to the Capitol about 
No, I wasn't. I wasn't worried.  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 Q 
A Tear gas, possible violence, not a concern? 
No. No, I'm --
Ms. Sumners. Do you have a question? 
Mr. Martin. No, I'm good. I was just -­
Ms. Sumners. I just want to make sure. 
Mr. Martin. I mean, no. 
Ms. Sumners. You're thinking back lots of years. 
Mr. Martin. Yeah. 
Ms. Sumners. You don't have a good memory. 
B 
Q It's okay. So besides talking to Kelly, were you tracking anything on social 
12 media as you were walking, talking to other people about what was happening? 
13 
14 A 
Q No, because our phones basically didn't work. 
Fair enough. So then once you get to the Capitol, did you see like people 
15 encouraging anyone to go into it? 
16 A So we got there and met up with Kari, and it was just --I mean, it 31 
17 was --there was a lot going on. There was people everywhere. There was people, of 
18 course, you know, up on the --up on the porch area, you know, in front --right in front of 
19 the Capitol. And there was people --yes, there was lots of people encouraging people 
20 to go, like move forward, people standing on statues with like bullhorns and, you know, 
21 just --just really being very pushy, you know, towards --yeah, go up there, you know, get 
22 up there. Yes, there was definitely people like that.  32 
1 
2 [1:42 p.m.] 
3 BY 
Q Okay. And how did you end up going into the Capitol? 4 
5 A Okay. So we were, like, there, and Kari was like --you know, she said it was 
6 pretty crazy up there. And we were all standing there, like, out, like, pretty far out, like, 
7 by the pond. 
8 And I --I mean, my idea was --I was like, I don't want to go. You know, I was like, 
9 guys, this --I am --I was just shaking my head the whole time, like, man, this does not 
10 look good. I don't think we should go up there. But then there was --we were just 
11 like --it was just very, like, serious. 
12 You know, it was like, well, I mean --you know, we all knew, whatever was going 
13 on was going to go down in history for something. So --plus, there was all these people, 
14 instigators, that were, like, pushing us, you know, like, just drilling us, like, you know, over 
15 and over, like, go up there, go check it out, or whatever. 
16 So we did. I mean, we started to move forward, like, towards the Capitol, and --I 
17 mean, the whole time, I was just like, no, I don't --I don't like this. But it took us a long 
18 time to get there. And then we just slowly --and we walked right up the steps on the --I 
19 believe it would be the west side. And we walked right up the steps, and, I mean, just 
20 walked right up. And it was, like, calm. Like, it really --I mean, there was a lot of 
21 people everywhere, and there was a lot of people, like, chanting stuff, but, overall, it was 
22 really pretty mellow. It was pretty calm, and it was just --you know, it didn't seem 
23 violent at all. I didn't see any violence, actually. 
24 Q Okay. So you say you were --it was calm. Were you in the middle of a big 
25 crowd?  33 
1 A Yeah. It was a big crowd, and there was people chanting, and, you know, 
2 yelling --yelling things. And there was instigators that seemed a little aggressive. But, 
3 I mean, they were far and few between. There were --you know, they were just here 
4 and there. 
5 
6 Q 
A Can I ask how you entered the Capitol? 
So --yeah. So we walked around the left side, went up, and went along the 
7 back, and pretty much stayed on the left side right there where the doors were open. 
8 There was two doors that were open. 
9 And I was --so I walked in. I walked right up to --to it. And it took a while for 
10 us to get up there. And there was people --there was a guy sitting in the window right 
11 there to the left of the open doors, sitting in the window with a --I believe he had a 
12 bullhorn. He might not have had a bullhorn. He might have just been yelling, but he 
13 was like, everybody --he's like, get in here. He's like, get everybody, get them all in 
14 here, you know, and, like, trying to round them all up, sitting in the window. 
15 And then --so we're like right up there in front of it, and so we were, like --Steve 
16 is in front of me. Steve Quick is in front of me. And he looks in the window. You 
17 know, he looks in, and then this guy comes up behind him and just, like, lifts his leg, grabs 
18 his leg and, like, lifts him up and basically lifted it up into the window. I mean, he wasn't 
19 even, like, really going to, like, do anything. 
20 But then --and then, after that, the guy --that same guy, like, comes back 
21 and --so, like, as soon as you get in the window, there was like a wall of police officers, 
22 like literally, like, 6 --6 to 8 feet from the window. And it was just super crowded. 
23 So, once Steve was in, like, he couldn't even go in through the window anymore 
24 because it was so crowded right there. Like, there was no space to even get in. 
25 Q So, at that point, did you still think it was calm? You're entering the Capitol  34 
1 through a window. There is a big crowd of people. There is a lot of police officers. Is 
2 it still calm? 
3 A Considering the fact that all those people were there, yes. It was --it was, 
4 like, the --considering the situation, like, there was no --there was literally no violence. 
5 There was literally --you know, it was just --my --my version of calm is maybe not 
6 somebody else's version of calm, but considering what was going on, it was 
7 relatively --like, I wasn't scared for my life or anything. You know, I wasn't like --
8 Q Okay, but you entered through a broken window. So do you take breaking 
9 windows to be violent? 
10 A Well, I actually didn't realize that the window was broken. I thought it was 
11 open. But, I mean, now that I look back at it, I see that it was broken. But, at the time, 
12 I thought that it was an open window. 
13 Q Okay. And you mentioned the wall or a lot of police officers and some 
14 people chanting. 
15 Do you remember what they were chanting? 
16 A They just --you know, it's the same chants that they heard us saying, you 
17 know, USA, USA. You know, and then there was --there was some other ones that 
18 were, like, whose House is it? Our House. 
19 There was --you know --and not --those were the ones that weren't really --I feel 
20 like there was instigators --there was people in there that were trying to get people 
21 rowelled up, and I don't feel like that they were --I feel like they were plants. I feel like 
22 there was people that were in there that were sort of --you know, they were plants in 
23 there to try to get people rowelled up. I --you know --so --
24 Q Okay. Do you remember hearing fight for Trump when people were 
25 pushing up against police officers?  1 A I actually don't remember hearing that. And I don't remember --actually 
2 remember even seeing people push --being pushed up against police officers. 
3 
4 Q 
A Okay. But why do you think they were plants? 
Because that's just been kind of a thing that happens. They --they --1 
5 mean, like, in the past, there has been people that come in, and they are put in to, you 
6 know, act like they're --they're dressed up like Trump supporters to try to make, you 
7 know, the Trump supporters or the MAGA movement people look bad. And, I mean, 35 
8 that's just common --that's just common knowledge. Like, people know that --I mean, 
9 this does happen. This is a thing. 
10 So I --they were --they easily stood out to me. I could --I could point out those 
11 people. I mean, you know, it's like, well, this guy is definitely, you know, not here to 
12 make us look good, that's for sure. 
13 Q So, if you knew there were plants in there to make Trump supporters look 
14 bad, or at least you thought there were plants in there to make Trump supporters look 
15 bad, why did you still go in? 
16 A It was a --I mean, it was --it was just a bad decision. I mean, I was --it was 
17 just a overwhelming moment of everything. It was just --my thought --my thought 
18 processes were overwhelmed, and I just didn't --I just made a bad decision. 
19 BY 
20 
21 Q 
A Is it fair to say you didn't know they were plants at the time? 
No, I didn't know. I didn't know for a fact who or anything was at the time. 
22 So --I just --you know, I --it was pretty --if I saw somebody being violent --and I think 
23 any of us that were there that day saw violence or acts of, you know, breaking things or 
24 something, we would have --we would have put a stop to that. You know, we --we 
25 were not --we did not want to look bad.  36 
1 You know, we're not there to cause violence or --or break anything or, you 
2 know --that wasn't what we were there for --to do. And, if we saw somebody 
3 doing --doing that, they weren't with us. And that --you know, we would be like, dude, 
4 you're not with us, so, you know, listen up, dude. And we would probably contact --we 
5 would ask an officer --if I saw somebody, I would be like, look, this guy is causing 
6 problems. He needs --he needs to go, you know. 
7 
8 
9 
10 Q 
A 
Q BY 
Didn't the police tell you to leave, or any of you guys to leave? 
No. No. 
You don't remember hearing police officers saying, It's time to go, or, you 
11 shouldn't be here? Or why did you think there were police there at all if you were 
12 allowed to be there? 
13 A Why did I think there was police there? There was --I mean, they were 
14 dressed --they were --
15 
16 
17 Q 
A 
Q No, no. Sorry --I meant, like --
They might not have been police. I don't know. 
That's not what my question meant. I'm sorry. 
18 So you said, if you saw someone doing something wrong, like violence or 
19 destruction of property, you would have pointed them out to the police, and you would 
20 have expected the police to take them out. 
21 A Yeah. 
22 Q Do you think that the police were there because you were not supposed to 
23 be in the building? 
24 A I don't know. I don't know the answer to that question. The police were 
25 there, I would think, to, you know --to protect the building.  1 I do know this, that, if there was an entryway that they didn't want them to go 
2 through, the people to go through, then people were not trying to go through. People 
3 were not going through that, and they weren't --they weren't pushing through it. 
4 I never saw anybody push through the police. I never saw any kind of violence 
5 like that. And, honestly, the police were having conversations with everybody. 
6 mean, a lot of them. A few of them were, you know, quiet, but other ones were, like, 
7 having a conversation. 
8 BY 
9 
10 
11 
12 Q 
A 
Q 
A Just to be clear, how long --how long were you at the Capitol? 
Inside? 
Yeah. How long were you inside the Capitol? 
I mean, I'm estimating, you know, 8 to, like --like 15 minutes tops, but I 
13 don't think it was that much. Like 8 to 12 minutes. 
14 Q And, when you say you didn't see anyone pushing through, like, the police 
15 on January 6th inside the Capitol, you're limiting it to the less than 15 minutes that you 
16 were inside the Capitol? Is that fair? 
A Yeah. Yeah. 37 
17 
18 Ms. Sumners. Well, I think you guys want to distinguish between the inside and 
19 outside, because you were outside longer, from what I am understanding, than --I think 
20 you're talking about before you went in and after you went in. So once you're inside, 
21 and then if you'll distinguish, just to make it clear, as far as outside, how long, what you 
22 saw. 
23 Mr. Martin. I didn't see --I didn't see any police getting --getting pushed 
24 anywhere actually. I didn't see it inside or outside. 
25 B~  1 
2 Q 
A 38 
And the tear gas, again, did you see any of that, or --
1 didn't see tear gas. There was some sort of gas, but it wasn't tear gas. 
3 There was some sort of smoke --smoke deals going on, but I don't know if they were fake 
4 tear gas probably for --for the media to get pictures of, or what, but it --it wasn't tear 
5 gas. I know that, because it didn't affect me in that way. 
6 Q All right. So let me just ask one last question about being in the Capitol 
7 since you mentioned that you think there were plants and possibly fake tear gas. 
8 What gives you the idea that Trump supporters would not be capable of doing any 
9 of that stuff in the Capitol? 
10 A Because that would ruin what we stand for. That would absolutely take 
11 away what we were there to do. And, I mean --
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q And do you speak -­
--it totally makes --
I'm sorry. Do you speak for every Trump supporter? 
I don't --I don't see how that's possible. 
Okay. So how can you know that it's impossible for other Trump 
17 supporters to do things that you yourself didn't want to do? 
18 A That's just my personal view. That's my personal opinion. I don't --I can't 
19 speak for anybody else. That's just what I --and what I thought that my fellow 
20 supporters --and it's not necessarily Trump supporters. I keep saying that, but it 
21 is --it's --I mean, if you want to call it MAGA or something, I --I don't want to keep saying 
22 Trump supporters, because it really isn't about Trump. It's not --it's not about Trump. 
23 We're not --we weren't there because Trump said this or Trump said that. We 
24 were there because we like our freedom, and we want to keep it. And that's why we 
25 were there. It's not --it's not about Trump. None of this is about Trump.  39 
1 Q Well --so you'd said you only --you were only in the building for 8 or so 
2 minutes. Why did you leave? 
3 A Because it was like --it was just like, man, I don't like this. Okay. So we 
4 walked in, and we walked into the big round room, which I guess was the crypt or 
5 something. I'm not sure what it was, but --but, as soon as we got in there, I just got a 
6 bad feeling, which is kind of weird not knowing that there was, like, stuff underneath 
7 there that was weird, you know? 
8 But I got in there, and I was like, man, I --I looked at Steve, and I was like, man, 
9 I've got a bad feeling. You know, it's like, I don't --I don't like this at all. And so we 
10 walked --and walked to the other side of it, and then basically turned around, and then 
11 walked back out. And that's --so that's all we did. 
12 Ms. Sumners. And, just to clarify, did you know where you were at at the time? 
13 Because I know we had this with Steve and Mike. So did you know it was the crypt or 
14 whatever? 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 Mr. Martin. I had no idea what any room was called. 
Ms. Sumners. Just stick to --because he asked to your knowledge -­
Mr. Martin. Yeah, I had no idea. 
Ms. Sumners. --when you went in, so -­
Mr. Martin. Right. 
Ms. Sumners. --take a second. 
Mr. Martin. I did not know --I was not aware of the names of the rooms. 
B~ 
Q No, that's fine. I was just trying to get a sense of why, at the time, you left. 
24 And it sounds like because you got a bad feeling? 
25 A Yeah. I just --I just, like, I don't like this, you know? I --one officer did  40 
1 say --I heard --and, like, over discussion --I heard over my shoulder an officer talking 
2 about there being blood --you know, blood spilled, or something. 
3 And so, you know, that probably triggered, like, well --I mean, you know, that 
4 probably triggered something in me. It was like, well, I don't want to be around any of 
5 that, you know? 
6 
7 Q 
A But I thought you said it was calm? 
It was calm. Yeah, it was all pretty calm considering the fact that, you 
8 know, there was people chanting and people trying to get people rowelled up, yes. 
9 wasn't afraid for my life or anything. Nobody was being violent. I wasn't scared of --of 
10 anybody. The cops or the police officers were not being aggressive or anything. It was 
11 all relatively pretty --you know, considering the circumstances. 
12 Q Vet you had a bad feeling. So what gave you the bad feeling besides --if 
13 there is blood, if there is police, I mean, it sounds to me like you got a bad feeling because 
14 something wasn't right about the situation. 
15 A Yeah. It was just weird. I mean, it was just very weird. It was just all, 
16 like, this is weird. The cops are being very nice. They're like, you know, you can go this 
17 way if you guys want. You know, they're like hand gesturing, just go on over here. 
18 And it was just, like, really weird. It was just weird. And I couldn't --I couldn't 
19 put a finger on what was going on, like, what the whole point of all this is. And I --yeah, 
20 I just got a bad feeling. 
21 I actually felt like we were set up. I --I --that's really --honestly, I felt like this 
22 whole thing was a setup, and I totally was a sheep, and I fell for it, and I was in the middle 
23 of it. And so that was my bad feeling. And so I --that's when we decided to basically 
24 leave. 
25 Q Well, why did you live-stream from inside the Capitol?  41 
1 A I don't know. I just --I just, like --it was like, well, here I am. I mean, I 
2 don't --I mean, I was just --I didn't feel like it was a --I didn't feel like it was --like I was 
3 doing anything horrible. I mean, I --I do realize that I made a mistake, and I shouldn't 
4 have gone in the Capitol. 
5 But, at the time, I didn't --I mean, like I said, I --I felt pretty calm, you know? It 
6 was --it was just like, hey, you know --it was like if I was in --on vacation somewhere and 
7 I did a live stream. I was like, well, here I am. You know, this is what I'm --
8 
9 
10 Q 
A 
Q Okay. Hold on. 
I think that's what I said, too. Like, here I am. I'm in the Capitol, and -­
Just one second. You said it's like you were on vacation? Do you go on 
11 vacations where there are people breaking into buildings and blood being spilled and 
12 police officers everywhere? 
13 
14 
15 A 
Q I didn't say that. 
You saw the police. 
Ms. Sumners. Just one second, because I feel like we're getting a little bit 
16 cross-examination in here, and I --I just want to --just give us one second, please. 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 Fair. We'll take a break at 1:58. We'll go off record. 
[Recess.] 
We'll go back on the record at 2:00. 
Q And I'm --so I apologize if that came off a little too strongly. I'm just trying 
22 to get a sense of, you know, what you were feeling at the time and why you were 
23 live-streaming, and you mentioned --when you said vacation, it did not comport with the 
24 other things you were mentioning, blood and police. So --
25 A Probably shouldn't have said that.  42 
All right. 1 
2 Q 
A Actually, I should just rephrase it as it was a moment in history that I was --I 
3 knew that this was going to be a moment in history, and so I probably just was like --got 
4 on, and --I --I --that was a dumb thing to do. I --and I never live stream. I --like, 
5 that's like the only time I ever did it, but, you know, it was --it was --it was dumb, but I 
6 did it, so --
7 Q Well, it's a good transition into the last sort of segment of our questions. 
8 But, before we get there, which is going to be about, like, looking back, I just have one 
9 quick question for Ms. Sumners. It's probably better if you answer this, but what's the 
10 current --what is the current status of Mr. Martin's case? 
11 Ms. Sumners. He has pied guilty, so we're set for --he's the same status as the 
12 Quick brothers. So they all have sentencing next week, actually. 
13 - Okay. Thank you. 
14 BY 
15 Q All right. Mr. Martin, just a couple more things. 
16 So you mentioned how, you know, it seemed like, in retrospect, live-streaming is 
17 always a stupid idea. So I want to ask you a little bit about your thoughts since 
18 January 6th. So, if you, like, look back on the day, what do you think about January 6th 
19 now? 
20 A Well --man, that's just like --I don't even know how to answer that. 
21 That's --like I --kind of a --there is a wide --a wide range of answers for that. 
22 I mean, it was definitely a --a moment in history. I still do feel that the election 
23 was stolen. I --I actually feel that the --that January 6th was --there was a lot of --it 
24 could have easily possibly been set up to --you know, just to make this --Patriots look 
25 bad.  43 
1 I --I mean, I --I regret --I definitely regret going to the Capitol. I wish we would 
2 have just left, you know? I wish Kari would have, like, met us at the monument and we 
3 could have just gone. I just wish we could have --you know, I wish I wouldn't have gone 
4 up to the Capitol. I mean, looking back on it, I still feel, you know --I do feel like we 
5 were possibly set up. Still, I just --I mean --and --it's really sad. It's a horrible, 
6 horrible thing that happened, and it really makes me sad. 
7 So, I mean, I --I just --I just hope that, you know, we --I hope we can all --we can 
8 fix our election system, and I hope that we can all, you know, keep our freedoms as --so I 
9 don't know. I don't know how to answer that question. 
Q That's okay. That was a good answer. 10 
11 Which part precisely makes you sad? Was it the idea that it was a setup, or is it 
12 the --the notion of a stolen election? 
13 A That's all combined into one. I mean, the whole thing was --I mean, with 
14 the election being stolen and then that --I mean, it's all one big setup. I mean, it's all --I 
15 really feel that our country has got --you know, has been infiltrated from within, and 
16 that --and it's pretty scary. 
17 I just --I just feel like --it's all one big --one big thing right now. You know, I 
18 mean, it's --it's really just scary for my kids and, you know, my kids' kids for me. 
19 mean --so --
20 Q Can I ask you where you are getting your information about that currently? 
21 A I --it's like common knowledge, so, like, everywhere. I mean, I --I think --I 
22 think majority of the people in the United States agree with that as well. I --I --that's 
23 my opinion. Actually, there might be polls on it. I don't know if the polls are factual, 
24 but I'm --most of the people that I talk to on both sides of the aisle are --they --they 
25 think that it was --that there has been some fishiness going on.  44 
1 Q Well I'm not here to debate, so don't take this question as any sort of, like, 
2 debating your views. I'm just trying to figure out what you're reading or listening to now 
3 that is giving you the idea now that the 2020 election was stolen. 
4 A Everything. I mean, there is --I mean, it's just, like, so --I mean, there is so 
5 much that happened. Like, I mean, at the very beginning of this interview, I mean, you 
6 asked basically that same question, and --I mean, I could go on forever about why I think 
7 the election was stolen. 
8 Q I'm sorry. I didn't mean why you think. I'm asking what are you reading? 
9 So the sources --a source question. 
10 A I will --I can give you the names of the videos --the people that put out 
11 videos that I --that I watch. But, I mean, other than that, I can't give you a specific 
12 answer on that. You know, like where --what am I reading? You know, I don't go 
13 read --it's definitely not the mainstream media. I don't --I don't watch any mainstream 
14 media. I don't listen to any mainstream media unless it's, like, prerecorded, you know, 
15 like, on somebody's video that's saying, you know --I don't watch FOX News. I don't 
16 watch --you know, I don't watch any stuff. 
17 I listen to X22 Report, And We Know, SGT Report, Mel K. You know, I watch The 
18 Awakening, you know, Clyde Clark and all his stuff. And then, also, you know, I'm on 
19 True Social. I've got True Social. So I'm on that now. 
20 Q Can you --sorry. Can you spell the second --I'm sorry I'm making you 
21 remember a list, but can you --if you remember, can you spell the second and fourth 
22 sources that you said, the videos? 
23 
24 
25 A 
Q 
A So X22. So And We Know. 
And --
And We Know. And then the fourth one was --did I --well, did I say Mel K?  1 
2 
3 
4 Q 
A 
Q 
A Yes. That one. 
Mel K. M-e-1, K. 
Okay. 
And these are just --these are just people that do research, you know, just 
5 about all the --you know, the elites and the --you know, we all --everybody kind of 
6 knows what's going on with the whole world and who runs all the corporations and the 45 
7 companies and the whole world, and it's just like, you know --they talk about all kinds of 
8 stuff. You know, like, you guys --we used to be called conspiracy theorists, you know, 
9 but now it's kind of being proven true. So we're not really conspiracy theorists 
10 anymore, but --
11 Q Okay. So those are the sources. I take it --are those part of the Q 
12 community, would you say? 
13 A I mean, I don't know that Q is a community. I mean, I guess there is --you 
14 know, I --I --I guess. Yeah, some of them, you know. Like, a lot of times they will, like, 
15 in their videos, they'll go back and they'll go to an old post and sort of see how it relates 
16 to the current situation that they're reporting on. So, I mean, yeah. 
17 Q Would --and would you say you are still part of a Q community even if there 
18 is no more Q drops or Q posts happening? 
19 A I would say I definitely, you know, pay attention to that kind of stuff, yeah. 
20 
21 Q 
A Do you have --
It's pretty fascinating. It's really super fascinating stuff. I mean, I 
22 can't --it's just so fascinating that I can't ignore it, you know? 
23 Q Right. And, on any of these sources, have they ever discussed reports by all 
24 the intelligence agencies, by the DOJ, you know, audits by Republican State leaders in 
25 multiple States that show there was no serious fraud or problems with the 2020 election?  1 
2 
3 A 
Q 
A 46 
Have they--
Have they discussed those? 
Have they discussed the fact that they --that there was no fraud? I mean, I 
4 don't think so. I don't think I've ever seen --I mean, other --that's all --that's more of a 
5 mainstream thing. I mean --
6 Q So let me take that, then. So those are all government reports. Do you 
7 take what the government is saying as --do you equate that with mainstream media? 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 A Yes. 
Q So fair to say you've lost faith in government? 
A I would say so, yes. 
Q Okay. And that has not changed since January 6th? 
A 
Q No. 
No. Okay. 
Well, I think we've covered a lot today, so thank you for taking the 
15 time. Is there anything else that you wanted to say? 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 Ms. Sumners. Just one second. 
- Sure. Do you want to go off the record or -­
Ms. Sumners. Yeah, just one second. 
- Okay. We'll go off the record at 2:10. 
[Recess.] 
- We'll go back on at 2:11 p.m. 
Yeah, Mr. Martin? 
Mr. Martin. Yeah. I just --yeah. We just --I just want to make it, you know, 
24 like --you know, I definitely take full responsibility for my actions. I totally am regretful 
25 for moving --you know, going --going up to the Capitol and going inside the Capitol and  47 
1 that whole thing. I wish I would have never been part of any of that. 
2 And, you know, I --I really am truly sorry for the events that did happen that day. 
3 I don't --I didn't --you know, I'm just sorry for --for the country and just all of us to have 
4 to, you know, do this. You know, I just --you guys and everything, everybody having to 
5 do all this stuff that --I mean, it's just --I really am sorry, and I just want you guys to know 
6 that. 
7 Well, thank you. 
8 So I just want to put this on the record, too. 
9 Thank you for taking the time to talk to us. We --we are here to get all the 
10 perspectives about January 6th, and it can be somewhat difficult to find people like you 
11 who are willing to talk to us, so we do very much appreciate it. And we --you know, 
12 that's something we want all of you all to know. 
13 We're not --we're not here to pick a side. We're just here to find the facts and 
14 the circumstances and the causes of January 6th, and then to recommend ways to move 
15 forward so that something like it doesn't happen again. 
16 So thank you for taking the time. 
17 And, Ms. Sumners, unless you have anything else, I can --all right. 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 We will close the record at 2:12 p.m. Thank you. 
Ms. Sumners. Thank you, guys. Have a good day. 
Thank you so much. Enjoy the rest of your day. 
Mr. Martin. Thanks. You, too. 
[Whereupon, at 2:12 p.m., the interview was concluded.]  1 
2 
3 Certificate of Deponent/Interviewee 
4 I have read the foregoing __ pages, which contain the correct transcript of the 
5 answers made by me to the questions therein recorded. 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 Witness Name 
Date 48 