Written Testimony of 
Mike Rothschild 
Journalist and Author 
Before the U.S. House of Representatives 
Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
Regarding The Role of QAnon in the Events of January 6th and Beyond 
March 23, 2022  Thank you to the January 6th Select Committee for the opportunity to submit written testimony about 
the role of the QAnon conspiracy movement on the events of that day. 
I am a journalist who has concentrated on researching and writing about the QAnon conspiracy theory. I 
am the author of "The Storm is Upon Us: How QAnon Became a Movement, Cult, and Conspiracy Theory 
of Everything," published by Melville House in June. This was the first book to examine the QAnon 
movement from its predecessors in the world of scams and anti-Semitic tropes, through its embrace by 
Trump supporters on the internet, and up until the aftermath of the January 6, 2021 insurrection. As 
part of promoting the book and educating the public on the recent growth of the QAnon movement, I 
have given interviews or been featured by dozens of news outlets, including the Washington Post, CNN, 
the New York Times, NBC News, Vice, the Guardian, MSNBC, the New Yorker, Rolling Stone, the Daily 
Beast, the Financial Times, Politico, Bloomberg, Forbes, and many others. 
Introduction -The Big Lie 
The 2020 presidential election saw an explosion of conspiracy theories that began months before the 
first vote was cast, and has continued to this day. President Trump and his supporters spent almost the 
entire year pushing baseless claims that Joe Bi den was incapable of carrying out basic campaign 
functions or speaking publicly, instead being hidden in a basement while COVID raged. Such a candidate 
could never beat Donald Trump fairly, so the cabal behind Trump's opposition would have to enact a 
massive fraud at every level to propel him to the White House. This would include changing votes, 
rigging voting machines, dumping huge amounts of fake ballots to be counted in secret in the middle of 
the night, and doing it all with the support of multiple foreign actors and globalist bankers. 
The consequences of what would become known as "The Big Lie" that Trump had actually won the 
election were profound. They emerged just hours after Election Day, continued to this day, and directly 
led to the U.S. Capitol riot. Trump relentlessly pushed conspiracy theories and hoaxes about Biden, 
which were also being pushed by the mysterious avatar known as "Q." Stolen election theories made up 
the bulk of what Q posted about during 2020, as well as making up a substantial portion of the video 
and social media content created by believers in the QAnon conspiracy theory. There were hundreds of 
Q followers at and inside the Capitol that day, at least some of whom publicly professed their belief that 
the breach of the Capitol and the attempt to overturn the election was "the storm" that Q had been 
prophesizing about since 2017. Many were arrested, and several died during the violence. 
Understanding how Q and the stolen election complex are linked is critical to understanding the Q 
movement's role in January 6th, what brought believers there, and what they thought was going to 
happen. Q believers saw Trump as a messianic figure who was incapable of anything other than victory. 
When presented with his defeat, they created their own reality where the "defeat" was simply part of a 
bigger victory- and everything they did that day was to further the final triumph they believed was just 
about to happen. 
What is QAnon? 
By its very nature, QAnon is extraordinarily complex. The core of the movement revolves around what 
claims to be a team of military intelligence officers (which called itself "Q") using the image boards 
4chan and 8chan/8kun to leak cryptic clues to an upcoming purge of a powerful cabal of elite 
Democrats, Jews, business moguls, and entertainers. This "deep state" is supposedly the shadowy force  that controls world events, funds both sides of every war, suppresses secret technology and medicine, 
and uses the media and entertainment to brainwash the sleeping population into not knowing they're 
being controlled. 
Such conspiracy theories have been common in American discourse for centuries. But Q presented them 
in a different way, broken down in cryptic riddles that only a select few knew how to decode. Those 
clues -called "drops" -take the form riddles and rhetorical questions that are "decoded" using the day's 
news and social media as a primer to unlock what's "really" going. They are full of jargon, rhetorical 
questions, riddles, codes, and links to right wing media sources, along with the memes and trolling 
familiar to image boards like 4chan. While Q claims to be an elite team of "less than 10" people who 
worked side by side with President Trump, no evidence supports this, or that they had any link to Trump 
or anyone in military intelligence. 
Taken as a body of work, the Q drops purport to reveal a secret and silent war being fought between 
patriotic "white hats" in the Trump movement and Satanic "black hats." In this story, that war would 
only end with "the storm"-mass arrests carried out through sealed indictments that could only be 
unsealed by president Donald Trump. They would lead to field tribunals carried out by the military, with 
the verdict always "guilty" and the penalty always death. Afterwards, a new age of peace and harmony 
would follow, with secret medicine and energy made available to all, and the enemies of freedom 
brought to their knees. 
Q believers, then, are not nihilists who want to watch the world burn, they're utopians who believe they 
want to make it better -through violence and conspiracy theories. It's that desire to usher in a better 
world, rather than destroy it, that powered many of them to go to DC on January 6th. Q pumped them 
full of patriotic nonsense that they were the change agents the world needed to be freed from the 
shackles of the dark cabal, which Trump would carry out. 
It's still not known who wrote and posted the Q drops. The most likely suspects, identified through 
stylometry analysis and their own statements, are South African programmer Paul Furber as being the 
person who initially started making Q drops, and former 8kun administrator (and son of 8kun's owner) 
Ron Watkins for making the drops at some point after early 20181. The ownership of the "Q" mantle 
likely changed hands many times, and the security measures to prevent hacking and stealing the 
account's password were negligible. 
Over 4,900 "drops," which are still freely available on numerous aggregator websites, Q spun a 
technothriller like a Tom Clancy novel set at a religious revival. And believers played a central role in that 
secret war, by creating their own social media and video content, adding their own wrinkles to the story 
QAnon was spinning, and increasingly giving up other elements of their lives to endless hours of 
research and connecting with fellow travelers. They also committed a long list of crimes, ranging from 
petty vandalism to kidnapping to attempts to assassinate Joe Biden to multiple murders. 
The story Q was telling touched on countless new and old elements in the conspiracy world, from 
fluoride to aliens. But for 2020, Q mostly cast the election as a struggle between patriots and the deep 
1 David Kirkpatrick, "Who is Behind QAnon? Linguistic Detectives Find Fingerprints," New York Times, February 19, 
2022, https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/19/technology/qanon-messages-authors.html  state that would decide the fate of the free world. It was, as Q said many times, "not just another four­
year election." Instead, it was the culmination of a battle that been going for centuries, maybe even 
longer -one that Donald Trump had to win, and would win, unless the all-powerful cabal took that 
victory away from him by cheating. 
QAnon and the 2020 Election 
Even before Biden locked down the Democratic nomination, both Trump and Q had spent months 
attacking the former vice president's age, mental health, financial dealings, past history, previous 
allegations, and previous record as a senator and vice president. The tone of their accusations was 
almost identical, though there's no evidence either side was actively coordinating with the other. 
"HOW DO YOU SHELTER [BIDEN] FROM DEBATES? HOW DO YOU SHELTER & PROTECT [BIDEN]?" 2 drop 
#4245 in May, making the claim that the Democrats would "change out" the nominee for Hillary Clinton 
or Michelle Obama at the last moment. Echoing Trump, Q claimed that the mail-in voting push being 
driven by the pandemic was part of a massive scheme to steal the election through "harvesting," that 
the polls were rigged to show support for Biden, and that China would be participating in the fraud by 
"cloning" ballots from battleground states. Drop #4738, On September 20, 2020, less than six weeks 
before the election, painted exactly how the election would be stolen and how the deep state would 
stop at nothing to force Trump out: 
How do you 'extend' lockdown(s) [economic hardship(s), unemployment, fear, death count, dementia 
Joe, etc.] in order to paint narrative mail-in voting [when did narrative start (March?_early?_planned?)] 
needed to 'save' lives {+ballot harvesting] in order to generate a future narrative election day+ 1 which 
casts doubt as to legitimacy of POTUS win {Constitutional Crisis]["not all mail-in ballots counted" "how 
many mail in ballots lost or did not arrive in key battleground states which could have returned a 
different result" "we must investigate who cast a vote but it did not register" "we must go door-to-door if 
needed [ballot harvest]" "our lives are at stake" "the sky is falling" in order to legally challenge, delay 
results, enact riots and chaos in an attempt to overturn [coup d'etat]. 
CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY? 
At the same time, the isolation of the COVID-19 pandemic was driving more people to seek alternative 
explanations for the chaos and upheaval the world was going through. 3 What were once separate 
worlds of more progressive "health freedom" crusaders and more conservative Trump supporters were 
coming together to create a world where the election and COVID went hand-in-hand, engineered by the 
same people to achieve one goal: Trump losing the election. There would be massive harvesting of mail 
in ballots, convicts released from prison to vote Democratic, the arrest of in-person voters, a ramping up 
of COVID-19 hysteria, and wholesale social media censorship. 
2 All Q drop text taken from aggregated posts available on qposts.online 
3Marianna Spring and Mike Wendling, "How Covid-19 myths are merging with the QAnon conspiracy theory," BBC 
News, September 3, 2020, https://www.bbc.com/news/blogs-trending-53997203  After a few late swings in the wee hours of November 4, 2020, thanks to voting centers in major cities 
turning ballots in late-just as election experts widely predicted would take place 4-it became apparent 
that Biden would win. Q promoters quickly claimed that Trump not only had won, but he had won 400 
Electoral College votes in a landslide victory that the media was desperate to cover up. Once the fraud 
was revealed at exactly the right time, the corruption would be so obvious that Bi den would have to 
admit his treasonous actions and concede, and Trump (through means that have never been fully 
explained) would continue with his presidency. 
The churn of "Biden will steal the election" conspiracy theories coming from Q believers was so 
powerful that at one point, two percent of all tweets referencing voting in 2020 posted in August and 
September were from accounts linked to QAnon. 5 
As the inauguration approached, it became clear that none of the Trump team's dubious lawsuits, pleas 
to the Supreme Court or military to step in and order a "redo" of the election, or faked "evidence" of 
fraud were going to have any impact on the final result. 
There was only one desperate action left -the name going around Q and MAGA social media was "the 
Pence card6." It was the idea, first floated by Michael Flynn acolyte Ivan Raiklin, that in his capacity as 
President of the Senate, Mike Pence could unilaterally decide that certain Electoral College votes had 
been won due to illegal voting, and disregard them. Such an action would ensure that neither candidate 
could go over the 270 needed to win the election, and lead either to a "re-vote" overseen by the 
military, or the House of Representatives holding a special election based on the 12th Amendment. The 
details were vague and unclear, but the outcome would be the same -Pence would, in effect, re-elect 
Trump without a public mandate. And whatever would happen had to happen on the day that the Vice 
President accepted and opened the certified electoral votes of the states -January 6, 2021. 
Q Makes the Journey to DC 
The idea that Mike Pence could "overturn" the election all by himself has no legal basis, and runs 
counter to the very idea of representative democracy. It was also never mentioned in a Q drop, as Q 
made their last post in December 2020 and the idea appeared to percolate in conspiracy circles after 
that. 
But Q believers definitely wanted it to be true, because they'd been fed a story that what was 
happening was impossible. Trump could not be denied another term, there simply had to be another 
explanation for what was going on -it had to be part of the plan. 
4 "Fact check: Vote spikes in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania do not prove election fraud," Reuters, 
November 10, 2020, https:ljwww.reuters.com/article/uk-factcheck-wi-pa-mi-vote-spikes/fact-check-vote-spikes­
in-wisconsin-michigan-and-pennsylvania-do-not-prove-election-fraud-idUSKBN27Q307 
5 Ben Collins, "QAnon accounts make a dent in voting discussion on Twitter," NBC News, October 16, 2020, 
https ://www. n bcn ews. com/tech/tech-news/qa non-accounts-ma ke-d ent-voting-d i scussion-twitter-n 1243 7 48 
6 Aram Roston, Brad Heath, John Shiffman and Peter Eisler, "The military-intelligence veterans who helped lead 
Trump's campaign of disinformation," Reuters, December 15, 2021, 
https://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/usa-election-military/  Q believers generally were not fans of Pence, and Pence was no fan of QAnon -he had dropped out of a 
fundraiser being given by major Republican donors after news broke that they had shared QAnon 
memes on social media. 7 
But this wasn't about Pence, it was about Trump. He had asked them to be there, promised them a 
"wild" time, and made it clear that the more support he got that day, the likelier it was that something 
magical would happen. Many believed that their presence in DC would be all that was needed to get 
Pence to "do his duty" and declare Trump as the real president. Many rioters spoke openly during the 
attack of the president calling for them and needing their help, and some believed that the reversal of 
the election would lead to the arrests of those who had perpetrated the fraud -"the storm" that Q had 
talked about so much. 
Fueled by Q-adjacent conspiracy theories, January 5th rioters thought that Trump would speak, 
something magical would happen, and Trump would prevail. The details vary, but they ultimately aren't 
important. Only the end result matters, not how it happens. Such nearly-magical beliefs are common in 
complex conspiracy movements like Q, driven by gurus and secret intelligence and great events that are 
always on the verge of taking place. They depend on believing hard enough that something great will 
happen, and then it will happen, and your belief will be validated. Q had said for a year that Trump 
would be victorious, so Q believers in the crowd believed it would happen. 
One believer who thought her presence in DC would usher in "the storm" that day was Air Force veteran 
and San Diego resident Ashli Babbitt, shot and killed by Capitol Police attempting to break into the 
Speaker's Lobby in the Capitol. 8 Babbitt was one of several Q believers who died that day, waiting for 
"the storm" to break and wash away all of the evil. 
What the plan was, or indeed, if there was any plan at all, was secondary. When Pence announced in a 
statement before the rally that he would do his constitutional duty and open the envelopes, the 
specifics of the plan changed, but what was supposed to happen didn't change -because it was 
inevitable. As Q said many times in drops, including one of the last ever drops, "nothing can stop what's 
coming." Q believers were used to disappointment, and Pence's "betrayal" was just another let down. 
They'd win in the end. 
It's become clear in the months since January 5th that while many of those who breached the Capitol did 
have a specific tactical plan, many others had no idea what they were doing, where they were going, or 
what was supposed to happen when they got there. Many wandered around the building taking selfies, 
astounded at how far they got. And they had no trouble using their real names and livestreaming 
themselves without covering their faces -because they believed they were digital soldiers following 
orders from a commander who would take care of them. 
7 "Pence drops plan to go to fundraiser hosted by QAnon backers," Associated Press, September 12, 2020, 
https://www.kbtx.com/2020/09/12/pence-drops-plan-to-go-to-fundraiser-hosted-by-qanon-backers/ 
8 Peter Jamison, Hannah Natanson, John Woodrow Cox and Alex Horton, '"The storm is here': Ashli Babbitt's 
journey from capital 'guardian' to invader," Washington Post, January 10, 2021, 
https://www.washingtonpost.com/dc-md-va/2021/01/09/ashli-babbitt-capitol-shooting-trump-qanon/  As one former Q believer in DC that day told NBC News of what was meant to happen, "all the world 
would be liberated, everyone would be happy." 9 
Why Does Anyone Believe QAnon is Real? 
The idea that Q will liberate the world is critical to understanding why people believe it -because it's 
about freedom, not violent chaos. And the idea of working with like-minded people to make the world 
freer is something that can appeal to anyone. 
Both polling and anecdotal evidence shows that the biggest demographic common to Q believers is not 
race or religion or even political affiliation, but already believing in other conspiracy theories 10• People 
who get sucked into QAnon definitely can be the stereotypical MAGA devotee, who believes Trump can 
do no wrong and is willing to commit violence on behalf of their beliefs. 
But that stereotype doesn't represent all Q believers. Many others are progressive-leaning Bernie 
Sanders supports, New Age and wellness devotees, disaffected Democrats, foreigners with no 
connections to American politics, or just people who like believing in conspiracy theories and enjoy 
decoding puzzles. Not all are violent, and the vast majority are not mentally ill. 
QAnon can appeal to virtually anyone who has any kind of propensity toward fringe beliefs, New Age 
concepts, conspiracy theories, alternative medicine, or who is simply looking for someone to blame for 
their lot in life. All it requires is the belief that someone is keeping something wonderful from you, and 
you want to know what it is. 
Like those pulled into conspiracy theories of the past, QAnon believers are often people looking for 
answers in a chaotic world, and for patterns in what seems like disorder. They believe that powerful 
people get away with things they can't get away with, that what happens in the world is being 
manipulated by hidden hands, and that vast and monstrous crimes not only go unpunished, but are 
committed by the very people tasked with defending the republic and protecting helpless children. They 
also believe that everyone in power is lying to them, including the media, experts, doctors, politicians, 
and prominent business people; and that they know the truth. What they learn from Q gives them the 
power to see through those lies to what "they" don't want revealed. And that secret knowledge gives 
them the power to shape their own destiny. 
Essentially, this can be almost anyone inclined to disbelief the media or politicians, and distrustful of 
"official stories" of events. 
The Impact of Failure on QAnon Believers 
The fact that the attack on the Capitol didn't change the electoral process didn't dissuade QAnon 
believers from thinking that Trump would still prevail. There was barely even a trace of disappointment 
among Q believers on the 6th. Once Pence released a statement saying he'd do his constitutional duty 
9 Brandy Zadrozny, "Escape from QAnon: How Jan. 6 changed one person's path," NBC News, January 18, 2022, 
https ://www. n bcn ews. com/tech/i nternet/qa non-ja n-6-cha nged-one-persons-path-rcna 11276 
10 "Understanding QAnon's Connection to American Politics, Religion, and Media Consumption" PRRI-IFYC, May 27, 
2021, https ://www.prri.org/resea rch/qa non-conspiracy-a meri can-politics-report/  and carry out his role under the Electoral Count Act, the focus of QAnon rage became Pence himself and 
not Biden -as illustrated by the audible calls to "hang Mike Pence" shouted by Capitol breachers 11• But 
despite the setback, they still believed that Trump would prevail on that day-just in a different way 
that hadn't been revealed yet. 
It was only once the insurrection had finally dispersed and Congress had re-entered the chamber that 
many Q believers coalesced around an alternative narrative -that the whole thing was just a patriotic 
expression of dissent, and that the majority of protestors there that day had been nonviolent, with only 
FBI or antifa operatives working undercover being responsible for any violent incidents. Many would 
attempt to absolve themselves of responsibility, saying they'd gotten caught up in the moment because 
of their support of Trump and had no intention to overturn the election or commit any violent acts. 
Many believed right up until Bi den was sworn in that Trump would still find some way to retain the 
presidency through judicial or military means -with Biden being arrested seconds before noon Eastern 
Time on January 20th. They saw January 5th as a victory for their movement, marveling at how they'd 
been able to get into the Capitol, how many people had come together to support Trump, and the 
worldwide coverage that showed Q flags and shirts to millions of people watching the news. 
Biden's actual inauguration brought momentary frustration, as believers took to social media to lash out 
or declare they'd been lied to.12 But this didn't last long, as many others publicly urged each other to 
have faith in Trump and be patient. This type of disconfirmation leading to renewed belief was common 
in Q, a movement able to absorb countless failed predictions and blown deadlines of when the dark 
forces would be brought down. Believers quickly embraced new theories that posited an even more 
complex conspiracy theory that Trump had to pretend to leave office in order to actually expose the 
electoral fraud, and would be "reinstated" as president once the time was right. 
The result was a seemingly endless series of audits, lawsuits, and demands by Q promoters to "fix 2020" 
and "restore" Trump to office. Those calls continue to this day, echoing the idea that January 5th was not 
a failure or a climactic battle, but one more step on what proponents see as a journey from darkness to 
light. 
The Role of QAnon Influencers in Convincing Believers to Go to DC 
Unlike the "storm" of mass arrests that Q foretold, the run-up to the January 5th insurrection wasn't 
done in secret, using codes and ciphers. Major QAnon promoters pumped out a stream of content 
telling believers to go to DC, and pumped them up for the great events that were about to take place. 
No Q influencer might have played more of a role in encouraging people to go to DC than Ron Watkins, 
the 8kun administrator who had re-invented himself as an election fraud guru and expert in the 
technical aspect of large-scale voting machine systems (he was neither of these.) Watkins spent the 
weeks before January 5th pumping out pro-Trump slogans, such as #CrossTheRubicon (a reference to 
11 Jesse Rodriguez and Rebecca Shabad, "Trump defends Jan. 6 rioters' 'hang Mike Pence' chant in new audio," NBC 
News, November 12, 2021, https ://www. n bcnews. com/politics/ dona I d-tru m p/tru m p-defends-ja n-6-rioters-ha ng­
m ike-pence-chant-newly-n 1283 798 
12 Shayan Sardarizadeh and Olga Robinson, "Biden inauguration leaves QAnon believers in disarray," BBC News, 
January 21, 2021, https://www.bbc.com/news/blogs-trending-55746304  Caesar seizing power in ancient Rome) and encouraging the president to invoke the Insurrection Act. As 
January 6th got closer, Watkins was organizing efforts to help rally-goers drive across the country 
together in caravans13• Days before the rally, he tweeted "If you are planning to attend peaceful protests 
in DC on the 6th, i [sic] recommend wearing a body camera. The more video angles of that day the 
better." That tweet was quickly retweeted by President Trump, one of nearly half a dozen times the 
president shared statements by the likely owner of the QAnon password. 14 
Watkins, who had well over half a million Twitter followers before his permanent suspension after 
January 6th, even offered to "sponsor people to go to DC" -though he quickly deleted the tweet.15 
Watkins' tweets encouraging people to form huge convoys to DC got massive engagement, often being 
retweeted tens of thousands of times. And they were referenced by others in Trump's inner circle, 
including journalists friendly to the stolen election cause. 
It should be noted that Ron was living in Sapporo, Japan at the time -though his father, 8kun owner Jim 
Watkins, was in the crowd that day. Even in the days leading up to January 6th, Ron Watkins continued 
churning out hints of great events to come, including a "MOAB" -Q speak for a major revelation, using 
the acronym given to a large piece of military ordinance -that would change everything we knew about 
that day. The "revelation" turned out to be another fizzle, a retweet of a series of blog posts about Mike 
Pence having committed treason originally written by another QAnon promoter, a failed screenwriter 
named Robert Carnero. 16 
Other major figures in the QAnon world followed suit with their exhortations for people to go for 
Trump. Many were familiar names who had relentlessly promoted Q, like Michael Flynn, Sidney Powell, 
and Lin Wood. Flynn, for example, relentlessly tweeted in the runup to January 6th that the certification 
of the Electoral College vote should be delayed, that Trump really won the election, and said that "On 6 
JAN, Patriots across the nation who can't make it to our Nation's Capital should respectfully & peacefully 
13 Atlantic Council's Digital Forensic Research Lab, "#StopTheSteal: Timeline of Social Media and Extremist 
Activities Leading to 1/6 Insurrection," February 10, 2021, https://www.justsecurity.org/74622/stopthesteal­
timel i ne-of-socia I-medi a-and-extremist-activities-I ead i ng-to-1-6-i nsu rrecti on/ 
14 Ryan Goodman, Mari Dugas and Nicholas Tonckens, "Incitement Timeline: Year of Trump's Actions Leading to 
the Attack on the Capitol," JustSecurity.org, January 11, 2021, https://www.justsecurity.org/74138/incitement­
timeline-year-of-trumps-actions-leading-to-the-attack-on-the-capitol/ 
15 @get_innocuous, "Watkins and Wood spent the weeks leading up to 1/6 frequently retweeting one another as 
they hyped the gathering in DC and Pence's role as the one person that could help keep Trump in office. On 12/22 
Ron had even offered to sponsor people to make it out to DC.", January 5, 2022, 11:53 AM, Tweet, 
https://twitter.com/get innocuous/status/1478816896833101827 
16@ get_innocuous, "One year ago today, Ron Watkins, Lin Wood and Q-influencer Neon Revolt would collaborate 
on a hype building exercise ahead of 1/6 with the goal of convincing their 1.6 mil (combined) followers that Mike 
Pence should be arrested," January 5, 2022, 11:21 AM, Tweet 
https://twitter.com/get innocuous/status/1478808992822353920  protest this fraudulent election at your State's Capitals [sic]." Flynn had 1.2 million followers at this 
point, and every one of his tweets got thousands of shares. 17 
Just as important in the effort to get Q believers into a frenzy over January 6 were the semi-anonymous 
influencers who had been making Q content from the very start, and who relentlessly pushed the stolen 
election hoax. Many of these are figures known primarily to Q believers -with screen names like 
lnTheMatrixxx, StormlsUponUs, and Praying Medic. 
These gurus had hundreds of thousands of social media followers, and kept their fans on the hook with 
an endless line of written and video content about how the election was stolen, Trump was the rightful 
winner, Bi den would be exposed, and that the "military is the only way" to ensure that justice is done. 18 
Promoter lnTheMatrixxx (real name, Jeffrey Pederson) shared with his 260,000 followers dozens of 
tweets by lawmakers announcing they would vote against accepting the Electoral College results, and 
retweeted a photo from an anonymous account that appeared to show National Guard members flying 
from Atlanta to DC. 19 Praying Medic (AKA David Hayes) shared Watkins' requests to organize convoys to 
DC with his 475,000 followers, along with other tweets hinting that Pence had the ability to resolve 
"dueling electors" by making refusing to accept either slate. 20 
Crucially, none were actually at January 6. In fact, of the QAnon believers arrested that day, only "Q 
Shaman" Jacob Chansley was well-known in the movement, and Chansley had a fairly small social media 
footprint compared to these other major personalities. The rest were rank and file devotees, who went 
out to fight for Trump and pay the consequences while the gurus of their movement stayed home and 
cheered on the invasion of the Capitol. 21 
The Role of Racism and Anti-Semitism in QAnon 
Believers in QAnon cast themselves as a race-blind, apolitical, religiously tolerant movement. Q would 
often use thought-terminating cliches like "patriots have no skin color" and "we do not look at race" and 
"they want you divided by religion" to claim that Q welcomed anyone of any race or creed as long as 
they wanted to fight for truth and justice. 
17 Michael Flynn, "I know a thing or two about the "Just Us" department. On 6 JAN, Patriots across the nation who 
can't make it to our Nation's Capital should respectfully & peacefully protest this fraudulent election at your 
State's Capitals. @realDonaldTrump #FightForTrump," Twitter, December 26, 2020, 
https://web.archive.org/web/20210106082247 /https://twitter.com/GenFlynn 
18 Alex Kaplan, "The QAnon Dallas event just showed a video that was similar to the March 4 conspiracy theory, 
including pushing the QAnon line "military is the only way" regarding getting Trump back into office." Twitter, May 
30, 2021, 2:09 PM https:ljtwitter.com/alkapdc/status/1399110648412397575 
19 lnTheMatrixxx, Twitter, https:ljweb.archive.org/web/20210104213559/twitter.com/inthematrixxx 
20 Praying Medic, Twitter, https://web.archive.org/web/20201222194250/twitter.com/prayingmedic 
21 Jim Vorel, An Epic Timeline of QAnon Delusions, From Election Day to Inauguration Day," Paste Magazine, 
January 21, 2021, https://www.pastemagazine.com/politics/qanon/qanon-trump-parler-gab-conspiracy-theories­
inauguration-day/#qanon-on-the-capitol-storming-riots  This is entirely untrue. QAnon is a deeply racist and anti-Semitic movement that routinely uses common 
Jewish tropes and stereotypes to advance the bigoted idea that a cabal of wealthy Jewish families 
controls world events. 
Q routinely boosts general anti-Semitic concepts of Jews controlling the world and funding wars on both 
sides, and on one occasion posted an extremely vulgar anti-Semitic cartoon originating in eastern 
Europe in the 1930's. But the two primary targets of Q's antagonism are Hungarian billionaire 
philanthropist George Soros, and the Rothschild banking family (no relation to the author of this 
statement). Q brings them up constantly as funders of whatever evil scheme Q is trying to stop. 
Q's second ever drop references Soros donating the bulk of his fortune to his own Open Societies 
Foundation, while later accusing Soros of funding domestic terrorism, hiding vast amounts of money 
through shell companies, attempting to rig both the 2016 and 2020 elections, being a secret Nazi, 
secretly working with Ukraine for evil purposes, and consistently working against the US government. Q 
also accuses the Rothschild family of owning almost every central bank in the world, of hosting parties 
where they hunt humans on their vast estates, of funding human trafficking, and of manipulating world 
events through the Clinton Foundation and other powerful agents. 
Racial tropes also find a home in Q's drops, particularly the racist conspiracy theory that Barack Obama 
-who Q usually refers to as "Hussein" after his middle name -was born in Kenya. Q also claims that 
Democrats have a "slave grip" on the "black pop," claimed the Black Lives Matter movement is a money 
laundering scheme, that the Congressional Black Caucus is a con, and that "illegals" are being imported 
from Central and South America to vote for Democrats. 
As the COVID pandemic deepened, Q believers began echoing racist statements by President Trump 
blaming Chinese people or Asians in general for the virus22, while openly claiming the virus was 
developed using money provided by George Soros. Finally, Q believers parrot other tropes relied on by 
more outwardly white nationalist movements. Some of these include the "Byzantium" theory of 
supposed white dominance, and Crusader and Viking tropes used by alt-right mass shooters. 23 
QAnon also has many of the same tenets as believers as the "replacement theory" which holds that non­
whites are being imported to breed whites into minority status. But they're also different in several 
significant ways. Q at least puts up the patina of being a non-racist, inclusive movement -while 
believers in the "Great Replacement" make no such effort, openly advertising their white nationalist 
beliefs to win new converts. Q is also much more based around riddles and cryptography, and less 
around outward calls to violence; while replacement theory offers no puzzles to solve or clues to decode 
-merely offering its believers targets for their hatred. 
22 Anita Chabria, "QAnon now pushes alarming conspiracy myths targeting China and Jewish people," Los Angeles 
Times, March 23, 2021, https://www.latimes.com/california/story/2021-03-23/qanon-conspiracy-evolves-new­
world-order-china-jewish-people 
23 Roland Betancourt, "Why white supremacists and QAnon enthusiasts are obsessed -but very wrong -about the 
Byzantine Empire," The Conversation, March 4, 2021, https://theconversation.com/why-white-supremacists-and­
qanon-enthusiasts-are-obsessed-but-very-wrong-about-the-byzantine-empire-154994  While Q is a movement rooted in violence, it's not genocidal or nihilistic. This reliance on hope is what 
brought many believers to Washington that day-it wasn't about destruction, it was about creating a 
better world. In that sense, Q is much better at hooking new converts and keeping current believers 
hanging on -it gives them hope for the future, rather than supplying them with endless targets for hate. 
How Trump and His Administration Fed the Delusions of Q Believers 
Beyond the constant mentions of QAnon by major figures in the stolen election world like Mike Flynn 
and Sidney Powell, numerous other officials connected to the Trump administration or Trump himself 
shared QAnon material. The most important of these was almost certainly Trump himself. 
While it's impossible to know exactly what Trump knew about Q and when he knew it, it's clear that 
somehow, this material was finding its way to Trump to retweet. On November 25, 2017, just weeks 
after the first Q drops on 4chan, Trump retweeted an account called @MAGAPILL, sharing a link to a site 
created by that account called "THE President Donald Trump Accomplishment List Website." That 
account was also an avowed QAnon supporter, having blogged about the "Q operation" right around the 
same time. 
By the 2020 election, Trump was regularly sharing the memes created by members of the movement. 
Even in early March 2020, as COVID-19 was rapidly spreading around the world, Trump responded with 
a meme-of him playing a fiddle with the text "MY NEXT PIECE IS CALLED ...... NOTHING CAN STOP 
WHAT'S COMING," with Trump himself adding, "Who knows what this means, but it sounds good to 
me!" It was one of 315 known instances of Trump retweeting a QAnon meme or a tweet by a QAnon 
linked account. 24 
Finally, when asked about QAnon after years of Q believers demanding the media "ask the question" of 
the president, Trump seemed to know little about it -but also knew at least something. In August 2020, 
Trump claimed he didn't know anything about Q except that "they like me" and claimed he was willing 
to help them "save the world from problems." 25 Two months later, Trump again refused to disavow Q, 
while simultaneously saying he knew "nothing about it" but that they are "very much against 
pedophilia."26 Such knowing winks and nods to the Q movement were critical to advancing the idea 
Trump was on their side, he knew of their devotion to him, and he'd reward it in time. 
Trump wasn't the only person close to the White House sharing Q material. His son Eric shared a QAnon 
meme on lnstagram in June 2020 27, while numerous Trump-friendly members of Congress and party 
24 Alex Kaplan, "Trump has repeatedly amplified QAnon Twitter accounts. The FBI has linked the conspiracy theory 
to domestic terror," Media Matters, updated January 11, 2021, https://www.mediamatters.org/twitter/fbi-calls­
qanon-domestic-terror-threat-trump-has-amplified-qanon-supporters-twitter-more-20 
25 Katie Rogers and Kevin Roose, "Trump Says QAnon Followers Are People Who 'Love Our Country," New York 
Times, August 19, 2020, https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/19/us/politics/trump-qanon-conspiracy-theories.html 
26 Maegan Vazquez, "Trump again refuses to denounce QAnon," CNN, October 15, 2020, 
https://www.cnn.com/2020/10/15/politics/donald-trump-qanon-town-hall/index.html 
27 Jack Brewster, "Eric Trump Promotes QAnon Conspiracy On lnstagram While Plugging Tulsa Rally," Forbes, June 
20, 2020, https://www.forbes.com/sites/jackbrewster /2020/06/20/ eri c-tru m p-promotes-qa non-conspiracy-on­
instagram-wh ii e-pl uggi ng-tu lsa-ra I ly/  officials have attended QAnon-themed conferences or meetings 28• Former White House director of 
social media Dan Scavino routinely posted QAnon memes and shared short videos that Q believers saw 
as shoutouts to the Q movement 29, while Trump campaign deputy communications director Erin Perrine 
went on the Q-themed livestream Patriots Soapbox to recruit volunteers 30• That list doesn't even 
include Michael Flynn, who'd been appointed and fired as National Security Advisor months before Q 
appeared. 
Other members of the Trump administration said on the record that the president knew nothing about 
Q and changed the subject when reporters brought it up. But it was clear that many people working 
directly for Trump understood the lightning in a bottle that Q represented. And they made no qualms 
about exploiting Q believers' devotion to Trump. 
Conclusion -The Ongoing Peril of QAnon 
The QAnon movement and the January 5th insurrection are inseparable in their doctrine, violence, and 
mythology casting Trump as the victim of a giant conspiracy to steal the election. Dozens of people 
arrested that day for breaching the Capitol, and hundreds more in the crowd outside who never got in, 
had expressed sympathy for Q or espoused its tenets. And Q's rhetoric of an election that Trump could 
only lose if the deep state stole it with fraud was almost the same as Trump's own rhetoric. 
Even with Q not having made a drop for over a year, it remains a dangerous and violent movement. Its 
mythology is seeping into mainstream discourse over vaccines, censorship, elections, border security, 
and politics, with the Q branding used less frequently as more people embrace it. It's entirely possible 
that without QAnon, the January 5th insurrection would have been significantly less destructive and 
violent; and the stolen election movement might have gotten considerably less support in the 
mainstream GOP. 
28 Abby Livingston, "Texas officials speak at QAnon-affiliated event where Trump adviser Michael Flynn encouraged 
military coup on U.S. government," Texas Tribune, June 1, 2021, https://www.texastribune.org/2021/06/01/texas­
al I en-west-sid-m i 11 er-lou i e-goh mert-qa non/ 
29 Isaac Stanley-Becker, "How the Trump campaign came to court QAnon, the online conspiracy movement 
identified by the FBI as a violent threat," Washington Post, August 1, 2020, 
https ://www. wash i ngton post. com/pol iti cs/how-the-trump-campaign-ca me-to-cou rt-qa non-the-on I ine-conspiracy­
m ovem e nt-i de nti fi ed-by-th e-fb i-a s-a-vi o I ent-th reat/2020/08/01/ d d0ea 9 b4-d 1d4-11ea-9038-
af089 b63a c21 story.html 
30 Eric Hananoki, "A Trump official went on a QAnon show to recruit campaign volunteers," Media Matters, July 14, 
2020, https ://www. media matters.org/qa non-conspi racy-theory/tru m p-officia I-went-qa non-show-recruit-
ca m pa ign-vol u nteers 