Dominion Votin~ Systems Dominion Voting Systems 
TOPLINES Updated: 11/12/2020 
• Dominion Voting Systems is a private company originally founded in Canada, but which now has a 
significant U.S. presence 
o Dominion has headquarters in Colorado under the subsidiary Dominion Voter Systems, Inc. 
• Dominion is reportedly 75% owned by private equity firm Staple Street Capital, 12% owned by it's 
Co-Founder John Poulos, with the remainder owned by other members of the firm's leadership 
o Prior to its 2018 acquisition by Staple Street, the firm appears to have been 100% owned 
by its Canadian parent company, and in turn, that firm's leadership 
• Dominion is the second largest provider of U.S. election systems 
o Dominion provides election hardware and software in 28 states and Puerto Rico 
Forei~n Ties/Concerns 
• Dominion Voting Systems was originally a Canadian company, but now has substantial U.S. 
operations 
• Dominion's CEO John Poulos has confirmed that parts of its voting systems are made in China, 
specifically citing LCD screens and small components like capacitors and resistors 
• Dominion has used Serbian software developers, and at one point had an office in Serbia 
• Dominion has been a vendor for elections in The Philippines and Mongolia 
Political Ties/Connections 
• Dominion employees have made less than $1,300 in political contributions, but 93% of those 
contributions have gone to Democratic candidates or committees 
• Dominion has retained lobbyists from Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck, including a pair of former 
Democratic aides 
o Brownstein lobbyist Brian McKean previously worked for the Obama campaign and as an 
aide to Sens. Jeanne Shaheen and Barbara Boxer 
o Brownstein lobbyist Nadaem Elshami is a former Chief of Staff to Nancy Pelosi 
• In 2019, Brownstein lobbyists donated to Sen. Mitch McConnell as the Senate was set to consider 
legislation that would have negatively impacted Dominion and other large voting machine 
vendors; the legislation as ultimately sidelined 
• Staple Street Capital board member William E. Kennard was the Obama Administration's 
Ambassador to the EU 
Parkinson0388  Updated: 11/12/2020 
Rumors/False Allegations 
• Allegations connecting Dominion to Democrats and prominent liberals are based on some real 
connections, but have been overstated 
o George Soros does not own Dominion; Mark Malloch-Brown, who is connected to Soros, is 
the Chairman of Smartmatic, which previously worked with Dominion 
o Dominion donated between $50,000 and $100,000 to the Clinton Foundation, and was 
previously a part of a Clinton Foundation commitment to provide election equipment to 
developing countries 
o Nancy Pelosi's former Chief of Staff, Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck lobbyist Nadeam 
Elshami, currently lobbies for Dominion 
o Blum Capital, the firm of Feinstein (D-CA)'s husband Richard Blum is a previous investor in 
software company Avid Technology which makes election software, but he does not have a 
"financial relationship" with Dominion 
• A conspiracy theory claims secret computer programs called "hammer" and "scorecard" have been 
used to "steal" votes for Biden 
o Chris Krebs, the head of the U.S. Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, said that 
this theory was "nonsense" 
o The theory comes from information given by Dennis Montgomery, a former government 
contractor who allegedly 'conned' the Pentagon into paying millions of dollars for anti­
terrorism technology that did not work 
o Associates of Sheriff Joe Arpaio say Montgomery defrauded them by claiming that the 
"Hammer" software program could show a federal judge was "colluding" against Arpaio 
o The theory also claims that a company named VR System siphoned votes in battleground 
states, but VR systems does not make vote-counting machines, and its software was not 
used in the battleground states were votes were allegedly "stolen" 
Technical Failures In The 2020 Election 
• Machines from Dominion Voting Systems did experience technical failures on election night, but 
these errors were reportedly fixed and did not lead to improper vote counts 
• Antrim and Oakland Counties in Michigan counties saw tabulation mistakes that were reportedly 
the result of human error, and the totals were corrected 
o A third Michigan county -which was not using Dominion -also saw a tabulation error 
• Georgia experienced problems on election morning with machines made by Knowlnk, a 
subcontractor of Dominion, in the counties of Morgan and Spalding, which prevented voters from 
casting ballots 
o The technology glitch was allegedly due to a software upload the night before the election, 
but Dominion has disputed that 
o Election officials extended voting hours and used paper ballots to work around the issue 
Parkinson0389  Updated: 11/12/2020 
Prior Instances Of Issues With Dominion's Machines 
• In 2017 and 2019, hacking conferences were able to successfully hack and exploit vulnerabilities 
in Dominion voting equipment 
• In 2013 and 2019, Texas twice rejected Dominion's voting machines due to both "multiple 
hardware and software issues," with an examiner saying the machines were "fragile and error 
prone" 
• In Georgia's 2020 primary elections, Dominion voting machines saw numerous problems, with 
some being delivered late, some suffering power problems, and other failing to work 
o Dominion's electronic poll books "were plagued by freezing software and user error" 
• Nevada's 2018 primary elections saw more than 300 reported errors from Dominion voting 
machines, including candidates being left off ballots in some instances 
• In 2018, there were reports that Dominion voting machines had overheated in Palm Beach, 
Florida 
• In 2012, Dominion voting machines in Florida awarded two Wellington Village council seats to 
losing candidates due to the machine being set up incorrectly 
Potential Security & Vulnerability Issues 
• Some Dominion voting machines include modems that could potentially connect to the internet, 
posing a hacking vulnerability 
o Dominion has modems in their vote tabulators and scanners 
• The National Institute of Standards and Technology recommend that voting systems do not have 
wireless connections, since it makes it possible to connect them to external networks 
Parkinson0390  Updated: 11/12/2020 
COMPANY PROFILE 
Dominion Voting Systems Has A Presence In The U.S. And Canada 
Dominion Voting Systems Was Founded In 2003 According To The Company's Website. (Dominion voting 
Systems, Accessed 11/12/20) 
• Dominion Voting Systems, Inc. -A Colorado-Based Subsidiary- Was Formed In 2010. (Colorado 
Business Entity Search, Colorado Secretary Of State, Accessed 11/12/20) 
• US Dominion Inc. Was Formed In Delaware In June 2018, Before Its Sale To Staple Street 
Private Equity Was Announced. (Delaware Department Of State, Accessed 11/12/20) 
Dominion Voting Systems, Inc. ls Registered In Colorado And Has An Office In Denver. (Colorado Business 
Entity Search, Colorado Secretary Of State, Accessed 11/12/20; Dominion Voting Systems, Periodic Report, Colorado Secretary Of State, Filed 4/15/20; 
Dominion Voting Systems, Accessed 11/12/20) 
• "Dominion Voting Systems, Inc .... Is Wholly Owned Subsidiary Of US Dominion, Inc., Which 
Is Incorporated Under The Laws Of The State Of Delaware, USA." (Dominion Voting Systems, 12/28/18) 
• "Dominion Voting System, Inc. Does Not Have Any Subsidiaries." (Dominion Voting Systems, 12/28/18) 
In 2016, Dominion Said That It Had An Office In Serbia. "One major election technology company, 
Dominion Voting Systems (DVS), develops its systems in the U.S. and Canada but also has an office in 
Belgrade, Serbia." (Patrick Thibodeau, "One Election-System Vendor Uses Developers In Serbia," Computerworld , 10/5/16) 
Company Leadership 
John Poulos Is The CEO And Co-Founder Of Dominion Voting Systems. "My name is John Poulos, and I 
am the Chief Executive Officer and co-founder of Dominion Voting Systems. As a U.S.-owned company, we 
currently provide voting systems and services to jurisdictions across 30 states and Puerto Rico." (John 
Poulos, Testimony , Committee On House Administration, U.S. House Of Representatives, 1/9 /20) 
• James Hoover Was A Co-Founder For Dominion Voting Systems. ("Voting Technology Companies in the U.S. -
Their Histories and Present Contributions," Accesswire , 8/10/17) 
• Ian Macvicar Was CFO And Executive Chairman From 2006-2018 And Is A Current Board 
Member. (Ian Macvicar, Linkedin , Accessed 11/12/20) 
• Nick lkonomakis Is The Vice President Of Engineering At Dominion Voting Systems. (Nick 
Ikonomakis, Linkedin , Accessed, 11/12/20) 
• Kay Stimson Is The Vice President Of Government Affairs At Dominion Voting Systems. "Kay 
Stimson, vice president of Government Affairs at Dominion Voting Systems, told CNN that the 
situation in Gwinnett County 'does not relate to system software and has had no impact on the 
accuracy of vote totals or tabulation."' (Justin Gamble And Dianne Gallagher, "Georgia's Gwinnett County Blames Dominion 
Voting Systems For Day-Long Delay Reporting Results," CNN, 11/6/20) 
Dominion ls Privately Owned By Its Leadership Team And Private Equity Firm Staple Street 
Dominion Voting Systems Is Privately Owned And Does Not Publicly Disclose Its Financials. "It's 
privately held and does not disclose its financials." (Ali Swenson, "Posts Falsify Ties Between Election Tech Firm And Democrats," 
The Associated Press, 11/10 /20) 
75.2% Of The Company Is Owned By Private Equity Firm Staple Street Capital, And 12 Percent Is 
Owned By The Company's Canadian CEO, John Poulos, According To A Letter Dominion Voting 
Systems Sent To The House Administration Committee Earlier This Year. "But in an April letter 
responding to a request by the House Committee on Administration, Dominion CEO John Poulos said 
Dominion is 75.2% owned by the New York-based private equity firm Staple Street Capital and that he, a 
Parkinson0391  Updated: 11/12/2020 
Canadian citizen, holds a 12% stake. No other investor owns more than a 5% stake, he said. Staple Street 
Capital did not return emails and phone calls for this story." (Ali Swenson, "Posts Falsify Ties Between Election Tech Firm And 
Democrats," The Associated Press, 11/10 /20) 
• Dominion Also Said It Was 75.2% Owned By Staple Street And 12.4% Owned By Poulos In A 
2018 Filing With Cook County, Illinois, And That No Other Owner Had A Stake That Was 
Larger Than 5% Of The Company. ("Cook County Disclosure Of Ownership Interest Statement," Cook County, Illinois, 2018) 
• The Remaining Shareholders Are All "Dominion Voting Team Members" According To A 
2019 Answer The Company Submitted To The State Of New Hampshire. ("Response To The State OfNew 
Hampshire Vote Tabulator Questions," LHS Associates , 4/30/19) 
~-----+ •------' , \ 
'Staple Street Capital Management : 
1290 Avenue of the Americas , 10"' Floor : 
New York, NY 10104 : 
L-, 
I I 
I I 
Dominion Voting Team Members : : 
I I 
I I 
I I 
---------------------~ ' L __ 
SHAREHOLDERS PARENT COMPANY 
US Dominion Inc. 
120 l 18th Street, Suite 210 
Denver, CO 80202 
Subsidiary 
Dominion Voting Systems, Inc. 
120118th Street, Suite 210 
Denver, CO 80202 U.S.A. 
In 2018, Dominion Said It Completed A Deal To Be Acquired By Its Leadership Team And Staple 
Street Capital. "Dominion Voting Systems ('Dominion Voting') announces that it has been acquired by its 
management team and Staple Street Capital, a leading New York-based, middle-market private equity 
firm." (Press Release, "Dominion Voting Systems Acquired By Its Management Team And Staple Street Capital," Dominion Voting Systems, 7 /16/18) 
• Previously, Dominion Voting Systems Was 100% Owned By Its Canadian Parent, Dominion 
Voting Systems Corp; That Company Appears To Have Primarily Been Owned By Its 
Principal Officers. ("Ownership And Control," California Secretary Of State, 9 /19 /14) 
U.S. PRESENCE 
As Of 2016, Dominion Was The Second Largest Provider In The U.S. Of Election Hardware And 
Software. ("The Business Of Voting: Market Structure And Innovation In The Election Technology Industry," Penn Wharton Public Policy Initiative , 
2016) 
Parkinson0392  Updated: 11/12/2020 
Appendix A: Percentage Market Share by Vendor 
Vendor Registrants Reached % Market Share 
Election Systems & Software 83,380,867 43.8% 
Voting Systems 71,006,665 37.3% 
Hart I nterCivic 20,983,037 11.0% 
Unisyn Voting Solutions 3,430,900 1.8% 
MicroVote 3,291,260 1.7% 
Danaher 2,685,409 1.4% 
MTS 2,435,360 1.3% 
IVS 1,336,070 0.7% 
Five Cedars Group 972,475 0.5% 
Clear Ballot 623,083 0.3% 
Dominion Currently Has Provides Election Hardware And Software In 28 States And Puerto 
Rico 
, , 
States 
Alaska I Louisiana I Pennsylvania 
Parkinson0393  Updated: 11/12/2020 
Arizona Michigan Tennessee 
California Minnesota Texas 
Colorado Missouri Utah 
Connecticut Nevada Vermont 
Florida New Hampshire Virginia 
Georgia New Jersey Washington 
Illinois New Mexico Wisconsin 
Iowa NewYork Puerto Rico 
Kansas Ohio 
("About," Dominion Voting Systems, Accessed 11/12/20) 
FOREIGN TIES 
Originally A Canadian Company, Dominion ls Now Headquartered In Denver 
Dominion Was "Originally A Canadian Company" But "Now Has Its Effective Headquarters" In 
Denver. "Dominion, originally a Canadian company that now has its effective headquarters in Denver, 
makes machines for voters to cast ballots and for poll workers to count them, as well as software that 
helps government officials organize and keep track of election results." (Jack Nicas, "No, Dominion Voting Machines Did 
Not Cause Widespread Voting Problems.," The New York Times, 11/11/20) 
Dominion Voting Systems Contain Some Chinese Parts And Technology 
In January 2020, Dominion Voting Systems CEO John Poulos Confirmed That Some Parts Of The 
Firm's Voting Systems, Including LCD Screens, Are Made In China. DOMINION VOTING SYSTEMS 
CHAIRMAN JOHN POULOS: "We do have components in our products that come from China. I don't know 
the exact percentage, but I can get that to the committee through my staff, happy to work with you in 
getting the exact number. Our products, tabulated products have always been manufactured in the United 
States. REP. ZOE LOFGREN (D-CA): "Before you go forward, what are the components that come from 
China?" POULOS: "So, for example, LCD components-the actual glass screen on the interface-down to 
the chip component level of the capacitors and resistors. Several of those components, to our knowledge, 
are not even-there's no option for manufacturing of those in the United State. We would welcome 
guidelines and best practices from the committee and from the federal government in terms of, this is not 
a problem that is unique election history." (Committee On The House Administration Committee, U.S. House OfRepresentatives, Hearing, 
1/9/20) 
Parkinson0394  Click To Watch 
• Dominion Voting Systems Contain Chinese Technology And Parts. "The infiltration by foreign 
countries like China into election voting equipment is emerging as a growing concern among 
vendors, who are actually asking for more federal regulation as they grapple with a lack of 
domestic suppliers producing critical technologies. Top executives of the three largest voting 
machine vendors-Hart InterCivic, Dominion Voting Systems and Election Systems & Software­
told the House Administration Committee Thursday they are hoping for guidance and support 
from the Department of Homeland Security on how to secure their subcontractors." (Michaela Ross, 
"Chinese Technology In Voting Machines Seen As Emerging Threat," Bloomberg , 1/9 /20) 
Dominion Has Used Software Developers In Serbia And At Least Once Had An Office There 
In 2016, Dominion Said That Some Of Its Software Development Takes Place In Serbia With 
Serbian Developers, But Strongly Denied That This Had Any Impact On The Integrity Of The Firm's 
Software. "One major election technology company, Dominion Voting Systems (DVS), develops its 
systems in the U.S. and Canada but also has an office in Belgrade, Serbia. It was recently advertising 
openings for four senior software developers in Belgrade. 'Like many of America's largest technology 
companies --which develop some of the software for their products in places like Asia, India, Ireland and 
the Mideast --some of our software development is undertaken outside the U.S. and Canada, specifically, 
in Serbia, where we have conducted operations for 10 years,' said firm spokesman Chris Riggall, in an 
email. Dominion said it takes measures 'to ensure the accuracy, integrity and security of the software we 
create for our products.' 'First, all of our software is developed in-house by DVS employees and this work 
is not outsourced to third parties. Second, we rigorously pre-screen all new hires to identify any potential 
security concerns among any personnel involved in product development. Third, we conduct extensive 
internal testing of all new software to evaluate the functionality, accuracy and security of the code 
designed for our systems,' said Riggall." (Patrick Thibodeau, "One Election-System Vendor Uses Developers In Serbia," Computerworld , 
10/5/16) 
In 2016, Dominion Said That It Had An Office In Serbia. "One major election technology company, 
Dominion Voting Systems (DVS), develops its systems in the U.S. and Canada but also has an office in 
Belgrade, Serbia." (Patrick Thibodeau, "One Election-System Vendor Uses Developers In Serbia," Computerworld , 10/5/16) 
Dominion Has Conducted Business In The Philippines And Mongolia 
"Dominion Voting Systems ... Has Done Business In The Philippines And Mongolia." ("The Business of 
Voting: Market Structure And Innovation In The Election Technology Industry," Penn Wharton Public Policy Initiative , 2016) 
Parkinson0395  Updated: 11/12/2020 
• Dominion Has Provided Ballot Scanning Devices In Mongolia And The Philippines. "The ICP 
precinct scanner technology proposed has been used globally in nations such as Mongolia and the 
Philippines. The Mongolian implementation in 2012 for their presidential election cycle involved 
2,500 devices across a very diverse geography and demographic." ("Uniform Voting System Request For Proposal," 
Dominion Voting Systems, 2013) 
• Dominion Has Conducted Business In Mongolia As Recently As 2019. ("Truth In Testimony Disclosure 
Form," House Committee On Administration , 1/7 /20) 
POLITICAL TIES & DONATIONS 
Dominion Employees Have Made Less Than $1,300 In Political Donations, But These Have 
Predominantly Gone To Democrats 
Dominion Voting Systems Employees Have Donated A Total Of $1,241.15 To Political Candidates 
Or Committees. (Federal Election Commission , Accessed 11/12/20) 
• Of That Amount, $1,155.90 -Or 93 Percent -Went To Democratic Candidates Or 
Committees. (Federal Election Commission , Accessed 11/12/20) 
• One Employee Donated A Total Of $86.2 5 To President Trump. (Federal Election Commission , Accessed 
11/12/20) 
The Largest Donation Made By A Dominion Employee Was $250, And A Total Of 9 Dominion 
Employees Have Made Donations. (Federal Election Commission , Accessed 11/12/20) 
Dominion Hired Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck As Their Lobbyists, Including A Pair Of 
Former Democratic Aides 
Dominion Voting Systems Hired Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck To Lobby For Them Beginning 
In February Of 2019, Paying Them $270,000 Since Then For Lobbying. (Lobbying Disclosure Act Database, United 
States Senate, Accessed 11/12/20; Lobbying Disclosure Act Database, United States Senate, Accessed 11/12/20;) 
• Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck Has Continued To Lobby For Dominion Through The Most 
Recent Quarter On "Issues Related To Election Security." (Lobbying Disclosure Act Database, United States 
Senate, Accessed 11/12/20) 
Dominion Voting Systems Retained Brownstein's Brian McKeon As A Lobbyist. ("Client Profile: Dominion 
Voting Systems," Center For Responsive Politics, Accessed 11/12/20; Catherine Ho, "Shaheen Aide Heads To Lobby Firm With Senate Democrats In Demand 
On K Street," The Washington Post, 9 /7 /16) 
• McKeon Was Previously An Aide To Sens. Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) And Barbara Boxer (D­
CA), And Also Worked On The Obama Campaign As Its Deputy Director Of Voter Protection. 
(Catherine Ho, "Shaheen Aide Heads To Lobby Firm With Senate Democrats In Demand On K Street," The Washington Post. 9 /7 /16) 
Dominion Voting Systems Retained Brownstein's Nadaem Elshami As a Lobbyist. ("Client Profile: Dominion 
Voting Systems," Center For Responsive Politics, Accessed 11/12/20) 
• Elshami Is A Former Chief Of Staff For House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA). ("Nadaem Elshami," center 
For Responsive Politics, Accessed 11/12/20) 
Dominion Voting Systems Also Retained Four Other Brownstein Lobbyists. ("Client Profile: Dominion Voting 
Systems," Center For Responsive Politics, Accessed 11/12/20) 
Lobbyist Donations 
Brownstein Lobbyists McKeon And David Cohen Donated To Sen. Mitch McConnell (R-KY) In 2019 
As The Senate Was Considering Legislation That Would Burden Dominion And Other Large Voting 
Machine Vendors; The Legislation Was Ultimately Sidelined. "The plans would likely burden the two 
largest electronic voting machine vendors in the United States, Election Systems & Software and 
Parkinson0396  Updated: 11/12/2020 
Dominion Voting Systems, with new regulations and financial burdens. Together, the companies make up 
about 80 percent of all voting machines used in the country and both have far-reaching lobbying arms in 
Washington D.C. Many of those lobbyists have contributed to the McConnell campaign, reported Sludge 
last month, an investigative outlet that focuses on money in politics. Sludge found that Brownstein Hyatt 
Farber Schreck lobbyist David Cohen, who has worked on behalf of Dominion Voting Systems this year, 
donated $2,000 to McConnell during this time. Brian Wild, who works with Cohen and has also lobbied 
Dominion, gave McConnell $1,000." (Nicole Goodkind, "Mitch McConnell Received Donations from Voting Machine Lobbyists Before Blocking 
Election Security Bills," Newsweek, 7 /26/19) 
Political Ties 
William E. Kennard, Former Ambassador To The EU Under The Obama Administration, Sits On 
The Board Of Staple Street Capital, The Private Equity Firm That Acquired A Controlling Stake In 
Dominion Voting Systems In 2018. "Mr. Kennard currently is non-executive chairman and co-founder 
of Velocitas Partners LLC, an asset management firm and is also a member of the Operating Executive 
Board of Staple Street Capital, a private equity firm. He serves on the boards of directors of AT&T, Inc., 
MetLife, Inc. and Duke Energy Corporation, and Ford Motor Company. He has served as a director of 
several public companies including Sprint Corp., FON Group (formerly Sprint Nextel Corp.), The New 
York Times Company and Dex Media, Inc., as well as a number of private companies. He served as the 
United States' Ambassador to the European Union from December 2009 to August 2013. As Ambassador, 
Mr. Kennard worked actively to promote transatlantic trade and investment and to eliminate regulatory 
barriers to commerce. He was a key force behind President Obama's decision in February 2013 to launch 
negotiations on the ambitious Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership which aims to expand 
trade and investment across the Atlantic. Before serving as an Ambassador, Mr. Kennard was managing 
director of the global private equity firm The Carlyle Group from 2001 to 2009 where he led investments 
in the telecommunications and media sectors." (Press Release, "Biography: William E. Kennard," u.s State Department, Accessed 
11/12/20; Press Release, "Dominion Voting Systems Acquired By Its Management Team And Staple Street Capital," Dominion Voting Systems Corporation , 
6/18/18) 
ALLEGED TIES AND CONSPIRACY THEORIES 
George Soros 
Despite Rumors, George Soros Does Not Own A Stake In Dominion, Even Though He Has A Tie To 
The Firm "One of the rumors traveling on the internet before Election Day was that liberal financier and 
philanthropist George Soros owned Dominion. He doesn't. There is a link between the two, though." (Fred 
Lucas, "4 Things To Know About Voting Machine Company That's Causing Stir," The Daily Signal, 11/9 /20) 
In 2009, Dominion Entered Into A Contract With Smartmatic, Which Builds And Implements 
Electronic Voting Systems Used In The 2010 Election In The Philippines. "Dominion entered a 2009 
contract with Smartmatic, which builds and implements electronic voting systems, and provided it with 
optical scanners used in the 2010 election in the Philippines, Accesswire reported." (Fred Lucas, "4 Things To Know 
About Voting Machine Company That's Causing Stir," The Daily Signal, 11/9 /20) 
• Lawsuits In The Philippines Ensued Over Glitches And Allegations Of Fraud After An 
Independent Review Of The Source Codes Used In The Smartmatic Machines Found 
Numerous Problems. "Lawsuits in the Philippines ensued over glitches and allegations of fraud. 
An independent review of the source codes used in the machines found numerous problems. The 
review said, 'The software inventory provided by Smartmatic is inadequate, ... which brings into 
question the software credibility."' (Fred Lucas, "4 Things To Know About Voting Machine Company That's Causing Stir," The Daily 
Signal, 11/9 /20) 
Smartmatic's Chairman Is A Member Of The British House Of Lords, Mark Malloch Brown, A 
Former Vice-Chairman Of George Soros' Investment Funds. "Smartmatic's chairman is a member of 
the British House of Lords, Mark Malloch Brown, a former vice-chairman of George Soros' Investment 
Parkinson0397  Updated: 11/12/2020 
Funds, former vice-president at the World Bank, lead international partner at Sawyer Miller, a political 
consulting firm, and former vice-chair of the World Economic Forum who 'remains deeply involved in 
international affairs.' The company's reported globalist ties have caused members of the media and 
government officials to raise questions about its involvement in the U.S. electoral process." (Bethany Blankley, 
"Officials Raised Concerns For Years About Security Of US Voting Machines, Software Systems," The Center Square, 11/9 /20) 
• Malloch-Brown, Serves On The Open Society Foundations Global Board -Founded By 
George Soros, But Smartmatics Is Not Owned By Soros Himself. "While the chairman of 
SmartMatics and the SGO Group, Mark Malloch-Brown, serves on the Open Society Foundations 
Global Board --founded by George Soros --SmartMatics is not owned by Soros himself, despite 
what the post circulating widely on social media suggested." ("Soros Does Not Own Voting Machine Company 
Smartmatics," The Associated Press, 3/13/20) 
• Smartmatics' Website Noted That "George Soros Has Never Had Any Ownership Stake Or 
Involvement With Smartmatic.'' "Q: Does George Soros have any involvement in Smartmatic? A: 
No. George Soros has never had any ownership stake or involvement with Smartmatic." ("Smartmatic 
Fact-Checked," Smartmatics , Accessed 11/12/20) 
Clinton Foundation 
Dominion Voting (DELIAN Project) Is Listed Among Those Donors Who Have Donated Between 
$50,000 To $100,000 To The Clinton Foundation. ("Recognizing Our Generous Supporters," Clinton Foundation , Accessed 
11/12/20) 
In 2016, The Clinton Foundation Recognized Dominion Voting For Its 2014 Commitment To 
Expand "Access To Voting Technology" Through "Philanthropic Support" To The Clinton 
Foundation's DELIAN Project. "In 2014, Dominion Voting committed to providing emerging and post­
conflict democracies with access to voting technology through its philanthropic support to the DELIAN 
Project, as many emerging democracies suffer from post-electoral violence due to the delay in the 
publishing of election results. Over the next three years, Dominion Voting will support election 
technology pilots with donated Automated Voting Machines (AVM), providing an improved electoral 
process, and therefore safer elections. As a large number of election staff are women, there will be an 
emphasis on training women, who will be the first to benefit from the skills transfer training and use of 
AVMs. It is estimated that 100 women will directly benefit from election technology skills training per 
pilot election." ("The DELIAN Project: Democracy Through Technology," Clinton Foundation , Accessed 11/12/20) 
• The DELIAN Project Was Dominion's Commitment To Provide Election Technology To 
"Emerging And Post-Conflict" Democracies. ("The DELIAN Project: Democracy Through Technology," Clinton Foundation , 
Accessed 11/12/20) 
Nancy Pelosi 
Nadeam Elshami, Former Chief Of Staff For Pelosi, Works For Lobbying Firm Brownstein Hyatt 
Farber Schreck LLP, Which Was Hired To Represent Dominion. "The company also reported hiring 
the lobbying firm Vectre Corp. Dominion's first-ever lobbying firm is Brownstein Farber Hyatt & Schreck. 
Nadeam Elshami, Pelosi's former chief of staff, is one of the lobbyists on the account." (Megan R. Wilson, "Voting 
Machine Firm Adds Lobbyist Amid Election Hacker Concerns," Bloomberg , 4/1/19) 
Richard Blum, Senator Dianne Feinstein's (D-CA) Husband 
Blum Capital, Which Is Owned By Senator Diane Feinstein (D-CA)'s Husband, Richard Blum, Was 
An Investor In Software Provider Avid Technology, Which Does Provide Election Software, But Not 
To Dominion. '"Can someone tell me why Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein's husband, Richard 
Blum, owns Avid Technologies (which provides the voting machines for our election)?' read an Instagram 
post viewed nearly 60,000 times. In fact, Avid Technology does not provide election software for 
Dominion or any other company -nor does Blum's firm currently own a stake in it. 'To officially correct 
Parkinson0398  Updated: 11/12/2020 
a misconception that arose on Twitter in the last 24 hours, Avid Technology, Inc. (NASDAQ: AVID) 
definitively states that we do not develop software for vote counting,' AVID wrote in a statement on 
Twitter on Saturday. 'Further, while Blum Capital was an investor in our company, it has no holdings 
today."' (Ali Swenson, "Posts Falsify Ties Between Election Firm And Democrats," Associated Press, 11/10/20) 
Dominion Voting Systems Has Denied That Blum Has Any Financial Relationship With The 
Company. "Dominion Voting Systems rebuked claims that the company has a financial relationship with 
the husband of Sen. Dianne Feinstein and that the company manipulated the results of the 2020 election. 
'The company has no financial relationship with Mr. Blum,' Kay Stimson, Dominion's vice president of 
government affairs, told the Dispatch. 'This is a false claim spread on social media."' (Tyler van Dyke, "Dominion 
Voting Systems Denies Financial Relationship With Dianne Feinstein's Husband," Washington Examiner , 11/11/20) 
"Hammer And Scorecard" 
A Conspiracy Theory Claims That Secret Computer Systems Called "Hammer" And "Scorecard" 
Have Been Used To "Steal" Votes For Biden. "A baseless conspiracy theory claims that secret computer 
systems called 'Hammer' and 'Scorecard' have been used to 'steal' votes for Biden. This theory relies on 
false information about voting machines, as well as false claims from a discredited former government 
contractor. There is no proof that Hammer and Scorecard exist." (Jane Lytvynenko And Craig Silverman, "Here's A Running 
List Of Debunked Postelection Rumors," BuzzFeed News, 11/9 /20) 
• The Theory Claims That A "Supercomputer System" Called Hammer Was Being Used In 
Conjunction With Software Called Scorecard To "Steal" Votes In Multiple Swing States. "The 
right-wing news site American Report floated the theory on Oct. 31, claiming that a 
'supercomputer system' called Hammer was being used in conjunction with software called 
Scorecard to 'steal' votes in multiple swing states. It falsely claimed this same system helped 
commit voter fraud in 2012. There is zero evidence to back any of this up, but it spread widely, 
including on FOX News." (Jane Lytvynenko and Craig Silverman, "Here's A Running List Of Debunked Postelection Rumors," BuzzFeed 
News, 11/9/20) 
"Chris Krebs, The Head Of The US Cybersecurity And Infrastructure Security Agency, Said On Nov. 
7 That These Claims Were 'Nonsense."' (Jane Lytvynenko And Craig Silverman, "Here's A Running List OfDebunked Postelection 
Rumors," BuzzFeed News, 11/9/20) 
• "'I'm Specifically Referring To The Hammer And Scorecard Nonsense. It's Just That -
Nonsense. This Is Not A Real Thing, Don't Fall For It And Think 2x Before You Share,' 
Tweeted Krebs." (Jane Lytvynenko And Craig Silverman, "Here's A Running List Of Debunked Postelection Rumors," BuzzFeed News, 
11/9/20) 
Parkinson0399  • ' "\ Chris Krebs #Protect2020 0 
.Jt .. · 
'\,1.1( 
To be crystal clear on + , I'm specifically referring to 
the Hammer and Scorecard nonsense. It's just that -
nonsense. This is not a real thing, don't fall for it and 
think 2x before you share. 
•;, Chris Krebs #Protect2020O 
Seeing #disinfo that some isolated voting day issues are tied to some nefarious 
election hacking and vote manipulation operation. Don't fall for it and think twice 
before sharing! Check out Rumor Control for more info on the security safeguards 
built into elections. #Protect2020 
POST-ELECTION 
..,Reality: Robust safeguards including canvassing and auditing procedures 
help ensure the accuracy of official election results. 
X Rumor: A bad actor could change election resul15 without detection. 
Gel th@ Facts: Thi! !.Y51.8'n5 and processes U!.~ by l!!lKt:HJfl officials to tabulatl!! votM and cl!!rtify official re!.ults arl!! 
ptotM.ti!d by "Vat'io~ 5.!lfec:uards that h,@,lp MSUl'I!! the!' auurMy or ell!!ction fi!'SulH. Tl"tM.!!-SAf~rds includ~ ml!!il'!.ul'M 
th.at M1p @nwrtotilbul.ltiioo systems fu11ct•on M lntenMd,pH)(Kt ap.nst mallcloussoftv.,i!r@ , a,..d l!!nab~ the 
EW'f)' ~te h;n voling 5-)'5,t.em 5,1re:gu111rdi to ensure-each billot cut in the ele<.tion can be corre<.tly c.ourited. State 
pr04:edure5 tmet1 include te~ng ,i11nd ce,tihcitlon of voting svsteffl'5, reQ1,11re(I ilVdlliible 101~ 111cl 50ftY11 i;llre chec:b, ~u,ch 
as logic and accuracy tests, to enwna that ballClts ill'e proper1y counted befo,e electiOn n!sults are made ofhcaal. With 
tt\d:ie K'Cunfy mcasurn, c-l«bon offio.ali an check to ikkrrrnnc that dC'Vl(CS arc runnmg the:! c.~rt1fied klftwm and 
func.tloning property. 
£wry s:Gte .tlso hills ~s iJind p<ocesses to wrify li'Ote tM.l,es before results. ~rf' ott.c1,-1y certified. Stiite processes Include 
rnbust chain•of autody pmcedUFP!i, ;a11d1tablP lot,:, :! nd ran1Ja!t.-. proa-sli'S. TN' 'r.1!.t maJOrrty Df"WM"es c;nr 1n thil!I; 
ell!Ction w;ill bl! cas;t on pape-balloti Of 1.J!.ingmachin@'.!. that produc@ a pap,i!!r audit trail, which all(]W for tabulation 
.wdrts LO bl!! COl'lductoi!'d from the pap@r foK(H'd in the P!l@oflt any iSSUM emef @with th@wtirig syu@m softwa111!!, audit 
(Chris Krebs, Twitter, 11/7 /20) Updated: 11/12/2020 
The Hammer And Scorecard Theory Is Based On Claims By Dennis Montgomery, A Former 
Government Contractor Who Allegedly 'Conned' The Pentagon Into Paying Millions Of Dollars For 
Anti-Terrorism Technology That Did Not Work." (Jane Lytvynenko And Craig Silverman, "Here's A Running List OfDebunked 
Postelection Rumors," BuzzFeed News, 11/9/20) 
• Montgomery Has A Long History Of Making Outlandish Claims That Fail To Come True" 
Including One Episode At The Height Of The War On Terror During The Bush 
Administration. '"Montgomery has a long history of making outlandish claims that fail to come 
true 'Montgomery has a long history of making outlandish claims that fail to come true,' reported 
Will Sommer of the Daily Beast. 'As an intelligence contractor at the height of the War on Terror, 
Montgomery was behind what's been called 'one of the most elaborate and dangerous hoaxes in 
American history,' churning out allegedly fictitious data that once prompted the Bush 
administration to consider shooting down airplanes."' (Jane Lytvynenko And Craig Silverman, "Here's A Running List Of 
Debunked Postelection Rumors," BuzzFeed News, 11/9/20) 
• Montgomery At One Point Claimed The Same Software, "Hammer," Would Enable Sheriff Joe 
Arpaio To Prove That A Federal Judge Was "Colluding" Against Him, A Claim That Arpaio's 
Associates Say Was Fake. "Montgomery resurfaced in 2013, as a 'confidential informant' for 
controversial Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio. Arpaio was embroiled in a federal case over his 
department's treatment of Latino drivers, and furious at the federal judge who had ruled against 
him. According to reports and court testimony, Montgomery convinced Arpaio that he had a 
software called 'Hammer' that could prove that the federal judge was colluding against Arpaio 
with the Justice Department and then-Attorney General Eric Holder. Arpaio bought into 
Montgomery's claims, even as Arpaio's lawyers and detectives fumed that the 'proof' Montgomery 
Parkinson0400  Updated: 11/12/2020 
was providing about the judge was fake. At one point, Arpaio reportedly exploded at his 
subordinates after they complained that he was wasting money on Montgomery and pointing out 
the controversy over Montgomery's al Jazeera software. Still, the Maricopa County Sheriff's Office 
paid Montgomery $120,000 for the data he provided Arpaio in his fight with the judge." cwm Sommer, 
"Infamous 'Hoax' Artist Behind Trumpworld's New Voter Fraud Claim," Daily Beast, 11/9 /20) 
The Theory Also Claims A Voting Technology Company Named VR Systems Was Stealing Votes In 
Florida, Georgia, Texas, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Michigan, Nevada And Arizona. The story from 
the American Report also claimed that a voting technology company named VR Systems was part of the 
conspiracy. It said that "'SCORECARD is stealing votes in Florida, Georgia, Texas, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, 
Michigan, Nevada and Arizona ... In Florida, one of the transfer points is VR Systems Inc, based in 
Tallahassee." (Jane Lytvynenko And Craig Silverman, "Here's A Running List Of Debunked Postelection Rumors," BuzzFeed News, 11/9/20) 
• However, VR Systems Does Not Make Vote-Counting Machines, And Its Software Was Not 
Used In Those States. "But as fact-checker Lead Stories reported, VR Systems does not make 
vote-counting machines, and its software isn't being used in swing states such as Georgia, 
Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Michigan, Arizona, or Nevada." (Jane Lytvynenko And Craig Silverman, "Here's A Running List 
Of Debunked Postelection Rumors," BuzzFeed News, 11/9 /20) 
ELECTION DAY PROBLEMS 
The Dominion Voting System Experienced Technical Failures On Election Night But 
Reportedly Did Not Lead To Improper Vote Counts 
Dominion Software Was Used In Two Of The Five Michigan And Georgia Counties That Had 
Problems On Election Night 2020, And In Each Case The Software Did Not Affect The Final Vote 
Count. "The Dominion software was used in only two of the five counties that had problems in Michigan 
and Georgia, and in every instance there was a detailed explanation for what had happened. In all of the 
cases, software did not affect the vote counts. In the two Michigan counties that had mistakes, the 
inaccuracies were because of human errors, not software problems, according to the Michigan 
Department of State, county officials and election-security experts. Only one of the two Michigan counties 
used Dominion software." (Jack Nicas, "No, Dominion Voting Machines Did Not Cause Widespread Voting Problems.," The New York Times, 
11/11/20) 
Two Michigan Counties Had Problems With The Dominion Voting Machines Leading To Inaccurate 
Results Being Initially Posted 
Two Michigan Counties -Antrim And Oakland -Saw Tabulation Mistakes, But Both Were A Result 
Of Human Error. "In the two Michigan counties that had mistakes, the inaccuracies were because of 
human errors, not software problems, according to the Michigan Department of State, county officials and 
election-security experts. Only one of the two Michigan counties used Dominion software." (JackNicas, "No, 
Dominion Voting Machines Did Not Cause Widespread Voting Problems.," The New York Times, 11/11/20) 
• Antrim County Reported A Sizable Win For Joe Biden On Election Which Was Later 
Corrected To Donald Trump Winning The County With 56 Percent. "President Donald Trump 
didn't win Michigan, but he can put a small county in the victory column after an unusual second 
look at the results. Trump defeated Joe Bid en in Antrim County, getting 56% of the vote, according 
to revised totals posted Thursday. Republican John James was the favorite in the Senate race. 'It 
certainly makes a lot more sense with people who are familiar with Antrim County,' said Jeremy 
Scott, deputy county administrator. Questions were raised after the county first reported a local 
landslide for Bid en, a Democrat, in an area that usually votes Republican. Officials acknowledged 
the results seemed 'skewed' and promised a second look. More than 16,000 votes were cast." 
("Small Michigan County Goes Back To The Win Column For Trump," Associated Press, 11/5/20) 
Parkinson0401  Updated: 11/12/2020 
• The Failure In Antrim County Michigan Was Due To A Failure To Update The Software On 
The Machines. "A failure to properly update software was the reason for a computer glitch that 
caused massive errors in unofficial election results reported from Antrim county, the Michigan 
Department of State said late Friday. And a U-M professor of computer science and engineering 
who specializes in voting systems and securities says it appears the snafu arose from an "unusual 
sequence of events very unlikely to affect any other jurisdictions." ("Antrim Vote Glitch: Expert Shares How 
County Mistakenly Flipped From Red To Blue," Detroit Free Press, 11/6/20) 
• 6,000 Republican Voted Were Initially Counted As Democrat Votes In Antrim County. "A 
glitch in software used to tabulate ballots in Antrim County, Michigan caused at least 6,000 
Republican votes to be counted as Democrat, according to Michigan GOP Chairwoman Laura Cox. 
The miscalculation, Cox said in a press conference, was first reported by a county clerk. A short 
investigation revealed that 4 7 counties in Michigan may have also suffered from a similar glitch 
with the same software, which could have caused some red counties to rake in a higher number of 
Democrat votes than usual." (Jordan Davidson, "Software Glitch In Michigan County Tallied 6,000 Republican Votes As Democrat," 
The Federalist , 11/6/20) 
• The Initial Inaccurate County Was Due To Different Ballot Versions Not Being Merged 
Properly When Tabulated. "County officials correctly loaded the new version onto the scanners 
for the affected precincts, but left the old version on scanners for precincts where the ballot was 
not affected by the late change, Halderman said. So although the scanners in the tabulators 
counted all the votes in each precinct correctly, the different versions of the ballot resulted in 
problems and erroneous vote totals when the precinct results were combined in the election 
management system, a separate software package used to manage and consolidate results before 
they are reported to the state, he said." ("Antrim Vote Glitch: Expert Shares How County Mistakenly Flipped From Red To Blue," 
Detroit Free Press, 11/6/20) 
A Third County Had A Tabulation Error, But Was Not Usin~ Dominion Systems 
Oakland County Wrongly Declared A Commissioners Race By A Small Margin Which Was 
Retracted After Election Officials Caught The Error. "In Oakland County, Democrat Melanie Hartman 
was wrongly declared the winner of the commissioner's race by a 104-vote margin. A computer issue at 
the Rochester Hills clerk's office caused them to double-count some votes. After elections officials caught 
the error, Republican Adam Kochenderfer was declared the winner with 1,127 more votes than 
Hartman." (Ashley Nerbovig, "Antrim County Figures Prominently In Election Conspiracy Theory," Detroit Free Press, 11/8/20) 
• Oakland County Did Not Use Dominion, They Used Another Company Called Hart InterCivic. 
"Dominion Voting Systems supplied Antrim County's voting software, as well as other counties in 
Michigan, according to the Michigan Secretary of State's website. The same site showed Oakland 
County does not use Dominion Voting Systems; it uses a vendor called Hart InterCivic." (Ashley 
Nerbovig, "Antrim County Figures Prominently In Election Conspiracy Theory," Detroit Free Press, 11/8/20) 
Two Georgia Counties Experienced Problems With Voting Machines Made By Dominion And 
Subcontractor Knowlnk 
"A Technology Glitch That Created Voting Problems In Two Georgia Counties On [Election Day] 
Was Caused By [Dominion Voting Systems] Uploading An Update To Election Equipment The Night 
Before, A County Election Supervisor Said." (Kim Zetter, "Georgia County Official, Vendor Disagree On Cause Of Election Day Glitch," 
Politico, 11/4/20) 
• State Election Officials And Dominion Voting Systems Acknowledged That A Problem 
Occurred, But Disputed The Cause Was A Last-Minute Software Update. "State election 
officials and the vendor that oversees the equipment acknowledged a problem occurred but have 
Parkinson0402  Updated: 11/12/2020 
disputed the county election supervisor's explanation, saying no such last-minute update had 
occurred." (Kim Zetter, "Georgia County Official, Vendor Disagree On Cause Of Election Day Glitch," Politico, 11/4/20) 
Morgan And Spalding Counties Used Voting Machines Made By Knowlnk, A Subcontractor Of 
Dominion Voting Systems, Which Prevented Voters From Casting Machine Ballots On Election Day, 
Causing Poll Workers To Give Out Paper Ballots And Having Superior Court Judge Extend Voting 
Hours. "The problem initially prevented voters from casting machine ballots on Election Day in Morgan 
and Spalding counties after the devices used to sign in voters at the polls failed to work, county officials 
said. Poll workers gave voters paper ballots until a workaround allowed the use of voting machines to 
resume. In response to the problem, Superior Court Judge W. Fletcher Sams extended voting hours. The 
counties use voting machines made by Dominion Voting Systems, but the electronic poll books that 
experienced the glitch were made by Knowink, a subcontractor to Dominion." (Kim Zetter, "Georgia county Official, 
Vendor Disagree On Cause Of Election Day Glitch," Politico, 11/4/20) 
Votin~ Machines Experienced A "Glitch" That Prevented Voters From Votin~ 
Marcia Ridley, Election Supervisor For Spalding County Board Of Elections, Told Politico That 
Dominion "Uploaded Something" The Night Before "Which Is Not Normal, And Caused A Glitch." 
"Dominion, which prepares the poll books for counties before elections, 'uploaded something last night, 
which is not normal, and it caused a glitch,' Marcia Ridley, the elections supervisor at the Spalding County 
Board of Elections, told POLITICO on Election Day. That glitch prevented poll workers from using the poll 
books to program smart cards that the voters insert into the voting machines." (Kim Zetter, "Georgia County Official, 
Vendor Disagree On Cause Of Election Day Glitch," Politico, 11/4/20) 
• According To Marcia Ridley, A Representative For KnowlnkAnd Dominion Voting Systems, 
The Problem Was Due To An Upload To The Machines By One Of Their Technicians The 
Night Before. "Ridley said that a representative from the two companies called her office after 
poll workers began having problems with the equipment Tuesday morning. The representative 
said the problem was due to an upload to the machines by one of their technicians overnight, 
Ridley told POLITICO. 'That is something that they don't ever do. I've never seen them update 
anything the day before the election,' Ridley said. Ridley said she did not know what the upload 
contained." (Kim Zetter, "Georgia County Official, Vendor Disagree On Cause Of Election Day Glitch," Politico, 11/4/20) 
• Both Gabriel Sterling, The Voting System Implementation Manager For The Georgia 
Secretary Of State, And Dominion, Denied Marcia Ridley's Account And Claimed The Last 
Update Made Was On October 31st. "Gabriel Sterling, the voting system implementation 
manager in the Georgia secretary of state's office, later disputed that account, telling reporters on 
Nov. 9 that the log files for the poll books show that the last update to them before the election had 
been made on Oct. 31. 'There was nothing that was done to the system after that date,' he said. 
Dominion, days after the election, also denied Ridley's account. 'We have confirmed that no 
Dominion company employee contacted the county about a last-minute update to the system,' a 
Dominion spokesperson said in a statement. 'Therefore, we have alerted the Georgia Secretary of 
State's office about this matter. The state can confirm that the final update took place on October 
31st."' (Kim Zetter, "Georgia County Official, Vendor Disagree On Cause Of Election Day Glitch," Politico, 11/4/20) 
• Ridley Has Continued To Push Her Original Statement And Described Dominion Having 
Sent Three Technicians To Have Traveled To Three Of Her Precincts To Make Additional 
Software Updates to Poll Books. "Ridley, when told about the statements from Dominion and the 
state, did not back down from her original statement. Furthermore, she said that to fix the issue, 
Dominion sent three technicians on Election Day, who traveled to each precinct in her county to 
make a second software update to the poll books." (Kim Zetter, "Georgia County Official, Vendor Disagree On Cause Of 
Election Day Glitch," Politico, 11/4/20) 
Parkinson0403  Updated: 11/12/2020 
Jennifer Doran, Elections Director For The Morgan County Board Of Elections And Registration, 
Said The Issue Stemmed From The Knowlnk Voter Access Cards Used With Dominion Voting 
Machines, Experienced The Glitch Not Allowing Poll Workers To Encode The Cards Properly. 
"Jennifer Doran, elections director for the Morgan County Board of Elections and Registration, said the 
issue was with how the Know Ink poll books encode a voter access card that is used with the Dominion 
voting machines. When voters sign in at a voting location, poll workers insert a voter access card into the 
Poll Pad tablet and encode it for that voter. The card is then inserted into voting machines to display the 
proper ballot for that voter. The glitch apparently prevented poll workers from encoding those cards." 
(Kim Zetter, "Georgia County Official, Vendor Disagree On Cause Of Election Day Glitch," Politico, 11/4/20) 
PRIOR PROBLEMS WITH DOMINION'S SOFTWARE/MACHINES 
Hackers Have Repeatedly Pointed Out Vulnerabilities In Dominion's Systems 
In July 2017, Hackers At A Hacking Conference Were Able To Exploit Vulnerabilities In A 
Dominion Ballot Scanner And "Effectively Take Control Of The Machine That Counts Votes." 
"Hackers were able to use a screwdriver to get inside a ballot-scanning machine similar to what will soon 
be used across Georgia, allowing them to replace a memory card and effectively take control of the 
machine that counts votes. That was one of the vulnerabilities found in the Dominion ImageCast Precinct 
ballot scanners, according to a report Thursday from the DEF CON Voting Machine Hacking Village, a 
conference in Las Vegas where hackers tinkered last month with voting equipment to expose 
weaknesses." (Mark Niesse, "Hackers Highlight Vulnerabilities In Vote-Scanning Machines," Government Technology . 9 /27 /19) 
In August 2019, A Hacking Conference Found U.S. Voting Equipment Including Dominion Systems 
Were Vulnerable To Hacking, With Many Of The Reported Vulnerabilities Having Been Reported A 
Decade Earlier. "This year's event allowed hackers to test voting equipment, including e-poll books, 
optical scan paper voting devices and direct recording electronic voting machines -all certified for use 
in at least one U.S. voting jurisdiction. 'Voting Village participants were able to find new ways, or replicate 
previously published methods, of compromising every one of the devices in the room in ways that could 
alter stored vote tallies, change ballots displayed to voters, or alter the internal software that controls the 
machines,' the report said. Despite the 'disturbing' findings of the report, the authors wrote that the 
findings were 'not surprising,' particularly in light of the fact that many of the election equipment cyber 
vulnerabilities found were 'reported almost a decade earlier.' Equipment that was tested included those 
made by leading voting machines companies Election Systems and Software (ES&S) and Dominion 
Systems." (Maggie Miller, "Hacker Conference Report Details Persistent Vulnerabilities To US Voting Systems," The Hill, 9 /26/19) 
Texas Repeatedly Rejected Dominion's Voting Machines Due To Both Hardware And Software 
Issues 
In 2013, And Again In 2019, Texas' Secretary Of State Rejected Dominion's Voting Machines After 
Discovering "Multiple Hardware And Software Issues." "Texas rejected Dominion's voting machines 
twice, in 2013 and again in 2019. Two state offices discovered what they called 'multiple hardware and 
software issues that preclude the Office of the Texas Secretary of State from determining that 
[Dominion's] Democracy Suite 5.5-A system satisfies each of the voting-system requirements set forth in 
the Texas Election Code.' In October 2019, the Office of the Texas Secretary of State explained that 
Dominion didn't meet certification requirements under the Texas election code." (Fred Lucas, "4 Things To Know 
About Voting Machine Company That's Causing Stir," The Daily Signal, 11/9 /20) 
One Of The Primary Examiners For The State Of Texas Referred To The Dominion Voting System 
As "Fragile And Error Prone" Before Rejecting It. "One of the examiners for the state of Texas, which 
rejected the same Dominion system, referred to it as 'fragile and error prone.' It's first major test of that 
claim was moved back to May 19, coinciding with the primaries for state offices, and then to June 9. But at 
Parkinson0404  Updated: 11/12/2020 
last the examiner's description was born out." (Tom Baxter, "Georgia's New Voting Machines, 'Fragile And Error Prone,' Get Their First 
Test," Saporta Report, 6/15/20) 
In 2018, Nevada's Primary Elections Run With Dominion Voting Machines Saw Glitches And 
Errors 
In June 2018, The Nevada Primary Elections Were Riddled With Hundreds Of Glitches On The 
Dominion Voting System, Including Double Voting And Displaying The Wrong Ballots. "For 
hundreds of Nevada voters and candidates, June's primary election did not go as planned. Officials said 
then that a spate of well-publicized voting machine problems -including glitches that left some 
candidates off of ballots or displayed the wrong slate of ballot choices -only affected a small handful of 
voters. But a Reno Gazette Journal review of public records found more than 300 reported machine 
malfunctions across the state. More than 100 were recorded in Washoe County alone. Those software 
hiccups contributed to a double-voting snafu that forced officials to call a rare special election in Clark 
County. Records reveal they also saw Washoe threatened with at least one election-challenging lawsuit 
amid widespread reports of candidates being left off the ballot." (James DeHaven, "RGJ Investigates: Nevada's Voting Machine 
Problems Were Much Bigger Than First Thought," Reno Gazette Tournal, 8/27 /18) 
• Despite The Problems, Nevada Officials Did Not Abandon The Dominion Voting System. "Yet 
county officials appear unlikely to abandon Dominion Voting Systems, the Canadian company that 
makes Nevada's voting machines. Officials in both Clark and Washoe counties, home to the state's 
two largest population centers, have said they plan to work closely with Dominion to resolve 
technical issues before November's general election." (James De Haven, "RGJ Investigates: Nevada's Voting Machine 
Problems Were Much Bigger Than First Thought," Reno Gazette Tournal, 8/27 /18) 
Georgia Had Problems With System Failures From Their Dominion Machines During Their 
Primary Election This Year 
In 2019, The State Of Georgia Named Dominion As The Winning Vendor To Supply Election 
Systems In The State. "In Georgia, the system's purchase was authorized by the State Legislature in 
2019 amid heavy lobbying by several vendors, including the winning bidder, Dominion Voting Systems, a 
Colorado-based company that is one of the nation's largest suppliers of election systems. Georgia had 
been under pressure to replace its older election machines since 2017, even before widespread claims of 
voter suppression emerged in the 2018 governor's race." (Nick Corasaniti And Stephanie Saul, "Georgia Havoc Raises New 
Doubts on Pricey Voting Machines," The New York Times, 6/11/20) 
During The 2020 Georgia Primary, Dominion's Voting Machines Saw Numerous Problems, With 
Some Machines Being Delivered Late, Others Blowing Fuses, And Some Failing To Work And 
Needing A Technician To Fix. "In some cases on Tuesday, the new machines required too much extra 
power for aging polling locations, blowing fuses and never powering on. In others, workers who were still 
being trained just days before the election struggled with setup. Some polling places never even received 
the machines until the morning of the election. Jonathan Banes, who served as a precinct captain at Cross 
Keys High School in suburban DeKalb County, outside Atlanta, said the voting machines failed to work as 
workers tried to boot them up beginning at 5:30 a.m. Poll workers ultimately had to call in a technician to 
fix them. 'I still don't know what it was, whether it was the PIN authorization, the physical card itself 
which is inserted into the machine to access the admin portal to manage the functions of the device, or 
what,' Mr. Banes said. The technician who came to the school fixed the problem but never explained what 
the problem was, he said." (Nick Corasaniti And Stephanie Saul, "Georgia Havoc Raises New Doubts on Pricey Voting Machines," The New York 
Times, 6/11/20) 
• The Poll Workers Admitted That They Had Little Training In The Way Of Troubleshooting 
Scenarios. "Mr. Banes, who is 29, was operating with only four poll workers but should have had 
a dozen -many of the older workers feared contracting Covid-19 -and only two of those who 
came had been trained, he said. The training in February 'was more of an introductory course, if 
Parkinson0405  Updated: 11/12/2020 
you can call it that,' he said. 'We didn't go into troubleshoot scenarios or how to deal with technical 
issues like this or have scenarios where voters cast ballots.' An online refresher training was held 
several weeks ago, he said." (Nick Corasaniti And Stephanie Saul, "Georgia Havoc Raises New Doubts on Pricey Voting Machines," 
The New York Times, 6/11/20) 
Dominion's Electronic Poll Books Also Were Plagued With Freezing Software And User Error. "The 
electronic poll books, also new, were plagued by freezing software and user error. Kay Stimson, the 
director of government relations for Dominion, said the company would be doing a 'deep dive' into what 
happened, but maintained that the issues did not involve equipment problems on a large scale." (Nick 
Corasaniti And Stephanie Saul, "Georgia Havoc Raises New Doubts on Pricey Voting Machines," The New York Times, 6/11/20) 
• The Problems Involved Difficulties Activating Voter Verification Cards And Software 
Glitches As Well, An Issue A Princeton Computer Scientist Described As A "Meltdown. "Many 
of the problems, she said, involved difficulties activating voter verification cards -which are 
inserted into the machines to start voting. The potential for problems with the new system was 
somewhat well known from the state's small-scale test in the 2019 elections, when a software 
glitch in the electronic poll books caused delays in most of the six counties where the testtook 
place. 'A lot of people saw this coming, this meltdown, months in advance,' said Andrew Appel, a 
computer scientist at Princeton who studies voting machines." (Nick Corasaniti And Stephanie Saul, "Georgia 
Havoc Raises New Doubts on Pricey Voting Machines," The New York Times, 6/11/20) 
In 2018, There Were Reports That Dominion Machines Overheated In Palm Beach, Florida 
In 2018, Dominion Disputed Reports That Its Machines Overheated In Palm Beach, Florida. "In 
Palm Beach, the elections supervisor, Ms. Bucher, said the count was eventually reconciled, but it did not 
matter: The county missed the deadline to submit its numbers. She blamed the machine used, which she 
said overheated, and she disputed the manufacturer's account that no technicians had been called about 
what she said had been an overheating problem. 'We have no reports of an overheating system that 
night,' said Kay Stimson, vice president of government affairs for Dominion Voting, one of two companies 
certified to provide the ballot counting machines in Florida. 'The motors shipped there to be on hand are 
still in the box."' (Frances Robles, "Nearly 3,000 Votes Disappeared From Florida's Recount. That's Not Supposed To Happen," The New York Times, 
11/16/18) 
In 2012, Dominion Voting Machines Awarded Victories To The Wrong Candidates In Florida 
In 2012, Dominion Voting Machines Awarded Two Wellington Village Council Seats To Losing 
Candidates Due To The Machine Being Set Up Incorrectly. "Palm Beach County elections officials 
could have averted a software glitch that erroneously awarded two Wellington Village Council seats to 
losing candidates if they had followed the instruction manual, the manufacturer has told state election 
officials. Supervisor of Elections Susan Bucher vehemently denied the claim. 'I read the reference guide 
three times yesterday,' she said. 'Nowhere does it tell you to check for this, ever.' Even as the question of 
who is to blame grew murkier, a clearer picture of the error itself emerged Monday, with the company, 
Dominion Voting Systems, sending out a national advisory warning election officials how to avoid a 
similar mistake. In the advisory, Dominion also suggests that the mistake could have been caught before 
the election had one key test been performed differently." (Adam Playford and Pat Beall, "Read Manuel, Firm Says Of Election 
Snafu," Sun Sentinel, 4/3/12) 
SECURITY & VULNERABILITY ISSUES 
Some Dominion Voting Machines Reportedly Include Modems That Potentially Could Connect 
To The Internet, A Hacking Vulnerability 
The Three Largest Voting Manufacturing Companies, Including Dominion, Acknowledged They All 
Put Modems In Some Of Their Tabulators And Scanners. "The three largest voting manufacturing 
companies -Election Systems &Software, Dominion Voting Systems and Hart InterCivic -have 
Parkinson0406  Updated: 11/12/2020 
acknowledged they all put modems in some of their tabulators and scanners. The reason? So that 
unofficial election results can more quickly be relayed to the public. Those modems connect to cell phone 
networks, which, in turn, are connected to the internet." (Kevin Monahan, Cynthia McFadden And Didi Martinez, '"Online And 
Vulnerable': Experts Find Nearly Three Dozen U.S. Voting Systems Connected To Internet," NBC News, 1/10 /20) 
• Dominion Refused To Respond To "Numerous Requests From NBC News" Regarding How 
Many Of Their Tabulators With Modems Were Currently In Use. "NBC News asked the two 
other major manufacturers how many of their tabulators with modems were currently in use. Hart 
said that it has approximately 1,600 such tabulators in use in 11 counties in Michigan. Dominion 
did not respond to numerous requests from NBC News for their sales numbers." (Kevin Monahan. Cynthia 
McFadden And Didi Martinez, "'Online And Vulnerable': Experts Find Nearly Three Dozen U.S. Voting Systems Connected To Internet," NBC News, 
1/10/20) 
• The National Institute Of Standards And Technology Recommended That Voting Systems 
Should Not Have Wireless Network Connections. "The National Institute of Standards and 
Technology, which provides cybersecurity frameworks for state and local governments and other 
organizations, recommends that voting systems should not have wireless network connections." 
(Kevin Monahan, Cynthia McFadden And Didi Martinez, "'Online And Vulnerable': Experts Find Nearly Three Dozen U.S. Voting Systems Connected 
To Internet," NBC News. 1/10/20) 
• Modems Make The Machines Vulnerable To Hacking By Making It Possible To Connect The 
Machines To External Networks. "With the 2020 presidential election only ten months away, 
Appel and Skoglund believe all modems can and should be removed from election systems. 
'Modems in voting machines are a bad idea,' said Appel. 'Those modems that ES&S [ and other 
manufacturers] are putting in their voting machines are network connections, and that leaves 
them vulnerable to hacking by anybody who can connect to that network."' (Kevin Monahan. Cynthia 
McFadden And Didi Martinez, "'Online And Vulnerable': Experts Find Nearly Three Dozen U.S. Voting Systems Connected To Internet," NBC News, 
1/10/20) 
Parkinson0407 