1 
2 
3 
4 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE 
5 JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL, 
6 U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
7 WASHINGTON, D.C. 
8 
9 
10 
11 INTERVIEW OF: CAROLINE ELIZABETH EDWARDS 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 Monday, April 18, 2022 
Washington, D.C. 
20 The interview in the above matter was held in 5480 O'Neill HOB, commencing at 
21 10:08 a.m. 1  1 
2 Appearances: 
3 
4 
5 For the SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE 
6 THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL: 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
, INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
, INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
, PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBER 
, PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBER 
, CHIEF CLERK 
16 For CAROLINE EDWARDS: 
17 
18 LISA WALTERS, SENIOR COUNSEL, U.S. CAPITOL POLICE 2  1 
2 
3 So we will go on the record at 10:08 a.m., Eastern time. 
Good morning. This is a transcribed interview of Officer Caroline Edwards 
4 conducted by the House Select Committee to investigate the January 6th attack on the 
5 United States Capitol, pursuant to House Resolution 503. 
6 At this time, I'd ask the witness to please state your full name and spell your last 
7 name for the record. 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 Officer Edwards. Okay. Officer Caroline Elizabeth Edwards, E-D-W-A-R-D-S. 
Thank you, Officer Edwards. 
So this will be a staff-led interview and members, of course, may choose to ask 
questions. In the room today we have --that's me --investigative 
counsel. We have 
investigative counsel; we have 
professional staff member; investigative counsel; 
investigator; 
, professional staff member; and we also 
15 have Ms. Lisa Walters, Office of the --Office of the Counsel --or Office of the General 
16 Counsel, Senior Counsel from the U.S. Capitol Police. There are no members present. 
17 At this time --or is there anything else you'd like to announce, Ms. Walters, or is 
18 that okay. 
19 
20 Ms. Walters. That's perfect. 
Before we begin, I'd like to just describe a few ground rules for 
21 you. There's an official reporter transcribing the interview. Please wait until each 
22 question is completed before you begin your response, and I'll wait to the best of my 
23 ability until each answer before I start my next question. The reporter also cannot 
24 record inaudible responses, so please use words with each answer. However, if you do 
25 accidentally shake your head, don't worry about it. I'll annotate that for the record, so I 3  4 
1 might say positive response or negative response from the witness, just to make sure the 
2 record is clear. 
3 We ask that you provide complete answers just based on your best recollection. 
4 If you don't remember something, just simply say so. Also, if you don't understand a 
5 question, just ask us for clarification. 
6 Please let us know if you need any breaks. We'll take a break whenever you 
7 need it. And also throughout this transcribed interview, we'll be directing your 
8 attention to exhibits. We'll show them on the screen, and when we refer to a 
9 document, you can take time to familiarize yourself with the document or with the video, 
10 if we show you video. If we need to play it back, just ask us. We'll play it back. 
11 I also want to remind you, as we do with all witnesses, it is unlawful to 
12 deliberately provide false information to Congress, and if you do so, it could result in 
13 criminal penalties. 
14 So you understand, Officer Edwards. 
15 Officer Edwards. Yes. 
16 Do you have any questions for me before we get started? 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 Officer Edwards. I do not. 
Thanks. 
EXAMINATION 
Q So, Officer Edwards, can you just tell us where you currently live? What 
22 your current job is? Just give us a little background about you. 
23 A Yeah, absolutely. I currently live in Annapolis, Maryland, and I am an 
24 officer with the United States Capitol Police. I'm currently on what's called light duty 
25 due to my injuries sustained on January 6th, and I currently --I'm on --I'm detailed to the  5 
1 first responders unit, shift three, which is the 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. shift. Right now, 
2 they have me detailed over to the peer support program where I am helping to get that 
3 started from the ground up. 
4 Q I should have asked this in the beginning, but what's your educational 
5 background? 
6 A I have a bachelor's degree from the University of Georgia in public relations, 
7 and then I am working on a master's degree from Johns Hopkins University in intelligence 
8 analysis. 
9 Q And before joining the Capitol Police, did you have any other jobs 
10 that --before? 
11 A I did. I was a project manager for a start up, essentially. It was a start up, 
12 so my title was project manager, but my --my day-to-day duties were, you know, 
13 everything from, you know, posting on social media for companies to, you know, cleaning 
14 the bathrooms. So that's --that's the start up life for you, but yeah. So that's what I 
15 essentially did was project management. 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A Was the start up in Georgia? 
It was, yes, sir. 
And then let's walk through --so when did you join the U.S. Capitol Police? 
I joined January 23, 2017. That was my first day of the academy. 
Okay. 
And I have been at the Capitol division ever --you know, after I graduated 
22 from training, I went straight to the Capitol division, and have been there ever since for 
23 my PTO, which is our police training officer phase, to --up until now. 
24 Q And what, I guess, jobs or roles have you held in your time since 2017? 
25 know you're on light duty right now.  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A Sure. 
Detailed to first responders, is what you said? 
Mm-hmm, yes. 
So what jobs have you held previously before that? 
So I started out at the --my first permanent --or my first temporary spot 
6 outside of my police training job was at the visitor's center as well as an inside officer on 
7 the Capitol division, third shift; and then from there, I was moved to the first responders 6 
8 unit shortly afterwards. That was my first permanent position, and I've been there ever 
9 since. 
10 
11 Q 
A Tell us a little bit about what the first responders unit does? 
Sure. Well, the first responders unit is the permanently outside officers. 
12 They are positioned outside the Capitol 24/7. They --their job is to --you know, like 
13 their name states, they're kind of the first line of defense when it comes to the Capitol 
14 Building itself. They patrol that area from First Street to First Street, and, you know, the 
15 west and the east, and --and then Capitol and Independence. They --you know, 
16 they're --they're pretty much there to, you know, be that, you know, barrier between the 
17 public and the building. 
18 Q Were there --were there any specific trainings that you went through to 
19 prepare for the first responders unit and being that barrier between First Street and the 
20 Capitol Building? 
21 A Sure. I went through M4 rifle training. That is open to everybody, but it's 
22 all but a requirement in name. It's not a necessary requirement to be on the first 
23 responders unit, but it's pretty much a requirement. 
24 And then, you know, besides going through just training on barricades, and I was 
25 also on a specialized unit called the civil disturbance unit, which is not a part of the  1 FRU --which is not a part of the first responders unit training, but it's a specialized unit 
2 you can be on outside of your regular shift. So that entails just being in --practicing 
3 being in hard platoon gear, which is like the turtle gear, moving formations in the hard 
4 gear, you know, shield techniques, arrest techniques while you're in the hard gear, that 
5 sort of thing. 
6 Q So is the --you said it's the civil disobedience? Civil disobedience unit, is 
7 that what you said? 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 over? 
15 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A Disturbance. 
Civil disturbance unit? 
Yes, sir. 
Is that a subset of the FRU? 
It is not. It's a subset of the uniform division as a whole. 
So not everyone in the FRU is trained in that hard gear that you just went 
Yes, correct. I believe everybody gets a week of training when they 
16 graduate the academy, so I misspoke. They do get a week of civil disturbance training 
17 when they graduate the academy. However, if you continue on this --to continue on 
18 the civil disturbance unit, you have to have training once or twice a year. 
19 
20 
21 Q 
A 
Q Okay. 
So not everybody continues to that. 
And --and I guess we're just curious. Why did you want to go through the 
22 civil disturbance training and be a part of that unit? What --I guess, what encouraged 
23 you to do it? 
24 A You know, I --I don't like to bring up my gender or size, but sometimes I do 
25 things on this department to prove I can, and, you know, prove to women who are my 7  8 
1 size that you too can be on the civil disturbance unit. It doesn't just have to be, you 
2 know, big burly guys. You can do the same job, you know, when you're my size. So 
3 that's why I wanted to stay on it, and when I, you know, hopefully get back in uniform 
4 soon, I'll go right back to the civil disturbance unit. 
5 Q And I meant to ask you this in the beginning, but along the same lines, right. 
6 You worked on start up doing project management, and then you moved from Georgia to 
7 D.C., and joined the Capitol Police. Can you tell us about why you wanted to do that as 
8 well? 
9 
10 
11 Yes. 
I'm sorry. Before we --we go to that line of questioning, can I ask 
12 Officer Edwards some follow-up training questions? 
13 Please? 
14 
15 Officer Edwards. Sure. 
So, Officer Edwards, appreciate it. With respect to the civil --civil 
16 disturbance unit training, did that --does that include the --training in the use of 
17 non-lethals, like tear gas and pepper spray and that sort of thing, or is that training that 
18 you would receive --someone would receive somewhere else? 
19 Officer Edwards. So I believe there are specialized people within the civil 
20 disturbance unit that were trained in those less-than-lethals prior to January 6th, and 
21 now I want to say it is a training that is open to the first responders unit as well, since 
22 they do have those over watch spots. They are now --it's now open for them to have 
23 those --that less-than-lethal training as well as other members of the, you know, as well 
24 as members of the civil disturbance unit. 
25 So I think that prior to January 6th, it was just a specialized, limited number of  1 people. I think --I believe it was limited to the instructors of civil disturbance unit, and 
2 now it's open to regular officers, especially those who are on the first responders unit. 
3 Thank you, Officer Edwards. 
4 Over to you, 
5 BY 
Yes. I just wanted --we're just curious, right? 
Sure. 9 
6 
7 
8 Q 
A 
Q So you went from start up life in Georgia to U.S. Capitol Police in D.C. What 
9 inspired you to make that career change? 
10 A I always wanted to be military or law enforcement, and I reached 27, and I 
11 said, you know, if not now, then when? And I --I guess I just applied to a bunch of 
12 different agencies, and the Capitol Police called, so --
13 Q Thank you. Thank you for your service on Capitol Police as well. 
14 
15 A 
Q Thank you. 
So I believe that you were --and I want to take you to 2020 now, post 
16 election, the time period in question that we've been talking to you about. I believe you 
17 worked at --or worked the Capitol during the December 12th rally in D.C. Do you recall 
18 that time? 
19 
20 A 
Q Yes. 
Okay. Do you recall there being a rally in D.C. on December 12th? There 
21 were multiple rallies. There was one on the mall. There was one at Freedom Plaza. 
22 Do you recall a large of number of people coming into the city for those rallies? 
23 
24 A 
Q Yes, I do. Yes, I --I remember a march coming up Constitution. 
And was the march supposed to end at the Supreme Court or around 
25 that --around that area?  1 
2 A 
Q 10 
Yes. Yes, sir. 
Okay. So can you just walk us through, I guess, what your expectations 
3 were for the December 12th rally, and the march to the Supreme Court? Do you 
4 remember anything about trainings or briefings or just what your mental mindset was 
5 heading into that rally? 
6 A Yeah, so the briefings were mostly that this was going to be a, you know, 
7 peaceful march. They weren't expecting too much disturbance, except for the 
8 possibility that there might be scuffles between protesters and counter-protesters, which 
9 was what we were supposed to look out for --was potentially, you know, Antifa or 
10 anyone like that, who --who would be, I guess, stirring up dissent among the protesters. 
11 Q So correct me if I'm wrong, it sounds like in preparation for December 12th, 
12 you all were focusing more so on the threat of counter-protesters causing disturbances 
13 with the actual individuals who came here for the rallies; is that fair to say? 
14 A Yes, that's fair to say. 
15 Q So then let's get to the day. Can you tell us what were you geared up 
16 wearing that day? Where were you positioned, if you remember? And when did you 
17 work on December 12? 
18 A So I remember getting there early in the morning. I want to say 
19 around --anywhere from 8:00 o'clock to 10:00 o'clock in the morning, and we had a 
20 couple of platoons who were in hard gear. But they put the rest of us in our regular 
21 uniform of the day, myself included, on --my group was lined behind the bike racks on 
22 Constitution Avenue in the northwest quadrant of Constitution Avenue, and we were 
23 there to make sure that nothing --you know, nothing really bad happened. 
24 I had a couple of counter-protesters that I just --I was kind of their 
25 personal --personal body guard, just making sure nobody --nobody pushed them or  11 
1 no --no, you know, squabble broke out. But we had it pretty peaceful on our end until a 
2 call went out on --I want to --I want to say Louisiana. I believe it was Louisiana. It's 
3 what we call check point one, which is at First Street and Constitution, and they could see 
4 on either First Street or Louisiana, that like intersection in the northwest. There was 
5 a --a fight broke out between some younger males who had come to, you know, kind of 
6 protest the protest, you know, and some --I don't want to call them Trump supporters. 
7 I guess they are Trump supporters. I don't know. The march was Trump, I guess. So 
8 yes. Trump supporters. And, you know, we ran over, got between them. 
9 I just remember saying to one of the --the --they were a group of black teenage 
10 boys, and I, you know, remember just saying, like hey, this isn't worth it. Like just --just 
11 go, like, you know, don't get yourself caught up with these people; like just go. And 
12 putting myself kind of in between them trying to, you know, make sure --and I'm not sure 
13 how --how it happened, but one of the boys was arrested. I'm not sure what --I was 
14 kind of in between a protester and then --a marcher and then a --one of the boys kind of 
15 just trying to calm him down, just being like, hey, you know, I don't want you getting 
16 mixed up in this, like, but behind me, I remember somebody getting arrested. 
17 
18 
19 Q 
A 
Q It was one of the counter-protesters you believe that got arrested? 
Yes, yeah. 
And you said this was at First Street and around Constitution on the 
20 northwest side? 
21 
22 
23 
24 A 
Q 
A 
Q Yeah, it was like, I want to say, First Street and Louisiana. 
And Louisiana? 
Yeah. 
Okay. And typically, when you're on patrol, at least on December 12th, 
25 were you around the Peace Monument area of the Capitol grounds? Is that where you  1 were? 
2 A No, I was just strictly along --I guess, that's like --what is 
3 that --Lower Senate Park where it, like --right where that fountain is kind of, along 
4 Constitution Avenue. 
5 
6 
7 racks. Q Okay. 
A So I was --I was there just along Constitution Avenue behind some bike 12 
8 Q And you said you arrived around 8:00 to 10:00 a.m. How long did you stay 
9 on duty that day? 
10 A I stayed until around --we left early. I do remember that. I want to say 
11 around --
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 Q It could be approximate. 
A Yeah, approximately like 3:00 p.m., 4:00 p.m. 
Q Okay. So the altercation you witnessed was during the daytime? 
A Yes. Yes, sir. 
Q Okay. And you also mentioned there were a couple of platoons that were 
17 in hard gear for this? 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 A They were stationed over by the Supreme Court. 
Q By the Supreme Court, so on the east side of the Capitol --
A Yes, sir. Yeah. 
Q Okay. How many people approximately are in a platoon? 
A It could be anywhere from 10 to 20. I believe the sweet spot is one 
23 commander for 10 --7 to 10 officers, but I've seen them as, you know, small as 7, as big 
24 as 20. 
25 Q And so there were two --approximately a couple of platoons in hard gear?  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q Mm-hmm. 
That's a positive response. 
Yes. 
And then how many --no, no worries at all. Just, no worries. 
Sorry. 
And then there were --you said you were in your uniform of the day. It 13 
7 was your just regular officer gear without any hard gear. Is that --
8 A Correct, correct. 
9 Q Okay. And approximately how many people were on duty in that uniform 
10 of the day, if you recall? 
11 A Oh, there were, I want to say --if I could recall for the Capitol division, I 
12 know they held midnights over, because there were midnights officers there. I know 
13 that there were at least --I want to say at least six platoons that I can think of just for the 
14 Capitol division that they brought in. My memory could be spotty when it comes to 
15 that. 
16 
17 
18 Q 
A 
Q No, this is all approximate. 
Yes, yes. 
So thank you. And then also, just --I'm using December 12th to get an idea 
19 of what your process is --
20 
21 A 
Q Sure. 
And how you prepare for an event. So is there like a morning huddle, and 
22 then you go on duty? Like, walk us through how you get from reporting to duty to then 
23 being on the corner of Louisiana and First Street. 
24 A Sure. There usually is --there's like a roll call where they call everybody's 
25 name, and then they give, like a brief description of what we'll be doing or what --what  14 
1 to look out for or, you know, what intel may be saying about the group --and very casual 
2 and informal, not like an event briefing, which is, you know, they have all of the --the 
3 data and everything like that. But it's --it's usually just, you know, here's what you're 
4 looking for, here's what to look out for, et cetera. 
5 Q Who actually gives this briefing? I --and I understand --I appreciate the 
6 difference. It sounds like it's more of an all-call versus just like a just morning-type 
7 briefing. Who --so --two questions basically: Who gives this briefing, and then who's 
8 around you or with you while you're receiving the briefing? 
9 A So it's usually the civil disturbance units for the Capitol. There are others 
10 for the House and Senate side. I'm not sure if they do the same kind of thing. But 
11 usually, the civil disturbance lieutenant in charge of the day will give the briefing. At 
12 that time, I want to say it was an acting lieutenant, Sergeant Nicolas. 
13 But, you know, usually --yeah, usually, it's just a meeting in the hallway. We're 
14 all cramped, and we --you know, it's just like a --an informal, hey, here's --here's what 
15 you're doing today. 
16 Q And just --I know it's in a hallway, cramped. Just give me an approximate, 
17 how many of your peers are with you in that hallway when you're receiving this briefing? 
18 A Sure. Anywhere between --like, I would say 60 to 100. 
19 Q As I get back to the days --these are going to be a couple targeted questions 
20 about the day. 
21 Do you recall anyone chanting about the Capitol Building on December 12th 
22 during that rally as they marched to the Supreme Court? 
23 
24 A 
Q No, sir. 
Do you recall anyone chanting anything in your --at you specifically, as a 
25 Capitol Police Officer, on December 12th?  1 
2 A 
Q No. 
Do you --does anything stick out about the day other than that one 
3 exchange you described earlier between the counter-protesters and the protesters? 
4 
5 
6 A 
Q 
A Something sticks out now that I have hindsight. 
Okay. 
The Proud Boys showed up, and I was --again, I was kind of playing, you 
7 know, bodyguard for this one Antifa member. He identified himself to me as Antifa. 
That's helpful. 15 
8 
9 Q 
A Yes, yeah. I'm not just profiling. He did identify himself. He was --you 
10 know, he was talking to people. He was --and a group of Proud Boys came up, and --I 
11 immediately sensed trouble, like I sensed that maybe something was going to happen. 
12 So I, you know, got a couple of other officers, and I said, hey, just stick here. And they 
13 approached the man acting like they were going to become violent, and then the minute 
14 we spoke to them, they walked away. And I've never had --it could --it could be one of 
15 two things. 
16 It could be, you know, they were respecting police officers. They were 
17 respecting my authority --whatever. I'd just never had somebody who was so geared 
18 up to fight. You could see it in their face. And then all of a sudden I say something and 
19 they walk away. And I remember it being like that was weird, and now that, you know, 
20 hindsight is 20/20. I'm like were they trying to lull us into a false sense of security, like, 
21 oh, they're going to do what we say. We're going to --I don't know. Maybe that's 
22 conspiratorial, but --but that --that was --now that I think about it, it was just like 
23 immediately upon when I would say something to them, they would just keep walking. 
24 And I know that MPD, later on, did not have the same --you know, didn't have the same 
25 experience, but we --we did.  1 Q And you're referencing the events that happened on the night of 
2 December 12th? 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 A Yes. 
Q Between the Proud Boys and --
A And Antifa --
Q Counter --
A Yeah. 
Q And just so we --we understand, how did you know these individuals were 
9 Proud Boys on December 12th? 
10 A They were wearing yellow and black, and I believe --I want to say they had 16 
11 some kind of wording or something like that. We were --we were told what they would 
12 look like, what colors they would be wearing, and, yeah, they were in yellow and black, 
13 some of them in military-style vests. 
14 
15 
16 
17 Q So you had received some type of briefing about the Proud Boys? 
A Yes. Yes, sir. 
Q And what was the context of this briefing? 
A I believe the context was that they had caused violence in the past. They 
18 were violent. It --it was kind of more of a: You don't have to worry about you, but 
19 you need to worry about them being violent towards counter-protesters. They'll 
20 respect you, but they won't respect Antifa, Black Lives Matter, anybody like that. 
21 Q So going back to one of the earlier points you made, you said you 
22 felt --looking in hindsight, and I get you said you're not trying to be --draw a conspiracy 
23 or anything, but that might have lulled you --I guess, the Proud Boys being deferential to 
24 your command on December 12th might have lulled you into a false sense of security? 
25 A 100 percent.  17 
1 Q Did this briefing maybe have something to do with that, the way you were 
2 thinking at that time, because of --you just said, in the briefing, that the threat for the 
3 Proud Boys primarily was for the counter-protesters, and the Proud Boys' acts show they 
4 were deferential to you on December 12th. Did that have any impact on your mentality 
5 at the time? 
6 A I would say so. You know, we --1 wasn't --I wasn't in alert mode, you 
7 know, and, I mean, I really --I really hate to say it right now, but I wasn't in alert mode 
8 like I was for Black Lives Matter. So that's --that's the honest truth. 
9 
10 
11 Please, just step in. Hey, 
Yes, please. Sorry,_, I keep missing the hand. 
12 All right. -why don't you go first. 
13 Officer Edwards, just a real quick question here. When you look 
14 at it, concerning your training there for the situation that you dealt with that day, do 
15 you --had you been exposed to any type of judgmental training that would have allowed 
16 you to handle that situation there between the Antifa and Proud Boys, do you think some 
17 of the training that you had, would have --that alleviated or at least helped you in that 
18 resolution there? 
19 Officer Edwards. Yes, sir. We do have deescalation training. We do get --we 
20 call it verbal judo, and we do have, you know, kind of deescalation training, not for the 
21 civil disturbance unit specifically, but in the academy we have that. And we deal with 
22 those types of situations. The civil disturbance unit mainly deals with those types of 
23 situations between, kind of, two entities that aren't looking for violence. Usually --I 
24 mean, I've worked probably 300-something --conservatively, about 300-something civil 
25 disturbance events, and those include, you know, every --every movement under the sun  18 
1 who comes up, and usually, 99.9 percent of the time, we're just using verbal judo to calm 
2 people down, deescalate, move people along, making sure that nothing happens. 
3 So I would say that, actually, you know, until January 6th, really --because Black 
4 Lives Matter was all verbal judo, really. Until January 6th, we had not encountered 
5 protesters that would not respond to any deescalation techniques that we used. 
6 And that's what I'm trying to get at, because going back to what 
7 you mentioned on December 12th, it was --you almost had a triangle as far as you've got 
8 Antifa, you've got the Proud Boys, and then you've got the Capitol itself that you've got to 
9 deal with. 
10 Officer Edwards. Right. 
11 During the summer prior, you only really had Black Lives Matter, 
12 and you know, with U.S. Capitol Police Officers. So that's why I'm trying --was trying to 
13 understand the judgmental resolution in training that you may have experienced that 
14 could have --that may have helped you resolve issues during those times. 
15 Officer Edwards. Yes, sir. Yeah, I --I believe we had some good leadership 
16 during the Black Lives Matter that did say we weren't going to escalate this, we weren't 
17 going to show up in force, we were just going to stand the line and talk to people, unless 
18 they started escalating things, and you know. But we were always on alert. We were 
19 always ready for that kind of escalation. And I'm not --I'm not entirely sure that I was 
20 ready for that escalation with the marches themselves, you know, which is a shame. 
21 One last question: What do you think that is --the difference 
22 that you may not have been prepared for the other march compared to the summer? 
23 Officer Edwards. It --I mean, it could be anything. It could be the anti-police 
24 rhetoric from Black Lives Matter that they wanted to, you know, make sure that the 
25 police were alert. You know, I --I mean, the marches --there were a lot of people, you  19 
1 know --thank you for your service, thank you for your service. They were supposed to 
2 be, I guess, these pro-police and they --our leadership didn't anticipate that they would 
3 commit acts of violence towards the police officers. 
4 You know, I --I would go so far to say if there was intelligence that Proud Boys or 
5 whoever --and at that the time, it probably --it might not have been. I'm not sure. 
6 But that they were going after the Capitol, not just police officers --like I can --I can 
7 protect myself, you know, but somebody coming after Congress is a way bigger deal than 
8 somebody coming after me. To me, I would think that there would be a higher threat 
9 alert for somebody coming after the institution that is the Capitol versus me. But, you 
10 know, I don't know what intel they had December 12th, so I can't --I can't speculate on 
11 that. And so, I guess, that's where --you know, that's my --I guess that's just my --my 
12 views. 
14 
15 Officer Edwards. Thank you. 
16 Officer Edwards, just one quick follow-up question, and I think you 
17 touched on it a little bit. With respect to December 12th --because I'm probably going 
18 to be asking you this question again --
19 Officer Edwards. Sure. 
20 --with regard to January 6th, but just focusing on December 12th. 
21 Did you have a sense that that crowd was a pro-police crowd or what was your sense of 
22 what the crowd's attitude was towards law enforcement on December 12th? 
23 Officer Edwards. I --I had the attitude that they were a pro-police crowd. And, 
24 you know, my politics aside --I am not a Trump supporter --but I did feel that they were 
25 not --that they weren't there to --they were not targeting me. Yeah, they were --like  20 
1 they were thanking me for my service. They were coming up, and some of them were 
2 hitting on me, which was gross, but, you know --but yeah. You know, so it was --it was 
3 a jovial atmosphere. It was a very calm atmosphere. 
4 I know that the --the hard platoons at the Supreme Court had a 
5 different --different view because they --they were there when a crowd of Antifa or 
6 counter-protesters came to, you know, to --they had some escalation there. They had 
7 some fights break out there. 
8 But the target was more the counter-protesters. It wasn't ever the police 
9 officers. I think the most negative thing I heard that day was we were wearing masks 
10 and people called us sheep for wearing a mask. 
11 Thank you, Officer Edwards. I appreciate that. 
12 Over to you-
13 Was there anymore follow-up questions regarding December 
14 12th. 
15 
16 
17 [Recess.] None for me. Thank you. 
All right. Well, can we take a quick recess in place? 
18 We will go back on the record at 10:47 a.m., Eastern time. 
19 
20 Q So let's get into January 6th now. What --first, what shift did you work on 
21 January 6th, and what expectation did you have heading into that day? 
22 A So we had been brought in for 12-hour days that entire week --the civil 
23 disturbance unit did, and I remember --I believe it was --I want to say it was 8:00 a.m. 
24 to 8:00 p.m. I'm not --approximately --not 100 percent on that. So we had been 
25 brought in early.  21 
1 Our --the night before, or I guess the day before, we had been given a little bit of 
2 a different roll call. Sergeant Nicolas who was the acting lieutenant and Lieutenant 
3 Brooks stood up in front of us, and talked about the crowd potentially having weapons, 
4 and we --they --they sounded a little bit more tense than maybe we had heard. There 
5 was nothing specific given, but they had sounded maybe a little bit more tense than we 
6 had heard in recent roll calls. 
7 So myself and another officer --because I was a union executive at the 
8 time --approached the two lieutenants asking about the possibility of having an M4 unit, 
9 a rifle unit that day, as over watch in case there were people with weapons in the crowd, 
10 and we also asked if there were any operating procedures or policies in place that called 
11 for how to deal with somebody who has a gun in a crowd of --you know, a sea of people. 
12 We had trained for if there was an active shooter situation while in hard platoon 
13 gear. However, it's --it's a different --it's different if I see a gun on somebody, which I 
14 know nine times out of ten --ten times out of ten, they're not supposed to have that gun 
15 on them in D.C., especially in a protest situation. How do I extract them from a crowd 
16 without injuring myself, injuring other people, pointing a gun at people who may 
17 not --you know, who may be in the way? That's a different --you know, pointing a gun 
18 into a crowd where they could steal a weapon, that's a --that's a whole different tactics 
19 technique. 
20 And we said are there anything --is there anything that prepares us for that? 
21 And we got, hold on. We'll take it up the chain of command and we'll get back to you. 
22 So the next day --that was January 5th. The next day, January 6th, they came --they 
23 approached Officer Nixon and I, and stated that they were not allowing an M4 unit, and 
24 that essentially to use our best judgment as police officers as to how to proceed if we see 
25 somebody with a weapon in the crowd. As you can tell --you can probably guess that  22 
1 didn't go over well. It --you know, it's --when you're put in situations like that, you 
2 know, sometimes your best judgment isn't the best judgment. It's always great to fall 
3 on --have some kind of policies, procedures, training to fall back on in that situation. 
4 And it essentially told us like, you know, you're a little bit on your own on this. 
5 You're --you're --you have to follow your best judgment. 
6 Q So just --so there were no --this briefing on the 5th, you didn't receive any 
7 formal rules of engagement for how to proceed if you saw a weapon in the crowd on 
8 January 6th? 
9 A No, sir. No, we did not. You know, other than just use your best 
10 judgment on how to proceed. Yeah, so --and the --the briefing was very serious, but 
11 that --you know, they also, again, they reiterated the counter-protesters, and that was, I 
12 believe, what the intelligence bulletin stated that there were --like the --to watch out for 
13 counter-protesters, like any squabbles between counter-protesters and protesters. 
14 I remember --and I remember getting --I had my Apple watch at the time. 
15 remember getting text messages that day from people being like, be careful, watch --you 
16 know, please be safe today. And it sounds naive right now, but I had no idea what they 
17 were talking about, because unless my--you know, unless our information comes from 
18 the Capitol Police about a certain event, we don't --you know, officers try not to go to 
19 outside media sources to gather intelligence on any events due to --you know, it could 
20 create a bias. It could create a reaction that you don't want. So, you know, hints, like 
21 the Black Lives Matter, you don't want to go looking at footage of Chicago and expect 
22 Chicago to show up in front of you, because you could react poorly to that situation when 
23 you don't need to. 
24 So any --any source of information comes directly from Capitol Police, and we --I 
25 just remembered being very --just confused as to why I was getting so many text  1 messages from people telling me to --to be careful, and, you know, that they were 
2 praying for me. 
3 Q So you said that were you on 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. for the entire week of 
4 January 6th, so even the days before? 
5 
6 
7 A 
Q 
A Yes, approximately. 
Approximately? 
Yes, yeah. 23 
8 Q And what unit was this that was working 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. the week of 
9 January 6th? 
10 A Civil disturbance unit. So it was a mix of midnights officers, day shift 
11 officers, and afternoon shift officers, anybody that was --had that specific civil 
12 disturbance training. 
13 Q And what was the reason that you all were having to work 12-hour shifts the 
14 week of January 6th? 
15 A They said --well, it had been also, I believe, around the election itself they 
16 brought us in with that. So they just said, you know, tensions with the election itself, 
17 and then January 6th was the Joint Committee, so they had brought us in for that. 
18 
19 
20 
21 Q Were you working --
Hey, Officer Edwards? 
Yes, sir. 
Can I ask a question related to that --in one of your previous 
22 questions? With respect to the information that was given to you, you mentioned that 
23 you focused on the information given to you by the Capitol Police, and you intentionally 
24 stay away from outside media. You were confused at the time about why people 
25 were --were saying be careful and that sort of thing?  24 
1 Do you recall amongst the information that the Capitol Police shared with you, did 
2 any of it contain any information about the Capitol itself being attacked or Congress itself 
3 being attacked, or was the --was it solely focused or mostly focused on the protester 
4 counter-protester information you mentioned earlier? 
5 Officer Edwards. I believe --and I don't --I don't recall any talk about them 
6 wanting to overthrow Congress, or --they said, you know, disrupt the proceedings, but 
7 everybody who comes up to --to protest wants to disrupt proceedings. I mean, we --I 
8 worked Kavanuagh hearing where, you know, people stood up on their chairs in order to 
9 disrupt the hearing, or like, protested outside the Senate office building. So "disrupt" is 
10 a very --it's a very soft word for --if they believed that they wanted to physically, actually 
11 get into the building to dis --I would say that "disrupt" is probably too soft a word to use 
12 for --because we see, you know, disruptions all the time, you know. That's what usually 
13 people who are peacefully protesting, they come outside an office building or maybe 
14 even the Hart atrium, and they yell, and that's --that's their disruption. 
15 So --so if you're meaning break into the building, and try to tie up members of 
16 Congress, and, you know, stuff like that, I would --I would say that when they said 
17 "disrupt," it was too soft of a word to use. We knew that people were going to come 
18 and yell and scream, and that's what we thought the extent of it was going to be. 
19 - Thank you, Officer Edwards. 
20 Over to you,_ 
21 BY 
22 Q And you mentioned earlier the decision when you were the union rep and 
23 your colleague, as the union rep, had requested the M4 over watch. You said, you know 
24 probably what our --what your response was or --what was it? 
25 A Sure. It was, you know, are you freaking kidding me, I don't think the word  25 
1 "freaking" was used. It was a sense of --you know, I guess, in all --I guess 
2 "abandonment" is too strong of a word to use, but it was just like, you know, you're on 
3 your own, use your judgment, everything's going to be fine; and not --not that they said 
4 anything like that. 
5 
6 Q 
A Right. 
But that was, I guess, what it told us or what it told officers that day --that 
7 was kind of the sense that we got was, you know, we were --we were concerned that if 
8 somebody is going to have a weapon, why are they bringing a weapon? You know, 
9 what's the --what's the reasoning behind bringing a weapon? And why can't we have 
10 more weapons out there to counteract someone bringing a weapon to, you know --we all 
11 saw the Michigan Capitol. Is that what you're talking about happening. 
12 You know, that's the --that's the kind of thing. Those are kind of the questions 
13 asked. Like are we talking about a bunch of people bringing rifles? And are we talking 
14 a bunch of people bring handguns? What are they going to try to use those handguns 
15 for? Is this just a 2nd Amendment, I want to carry, and whatever thing? Or is this a: 
16 They're going to use these weapons against somebody? These were all questions we 
17 had, and there were very little answers. 
18 Q And this may be obvious, but I just want to make sure it's clear, what 
19 capability would an M4 unit have provided for you all in that --on that day? 
20 A So it would have provided over watch. They usually stand --an M --the 
21 M4s stand above the crowd, so it would mean, you know --and we are not snippers, you 
22 know, to be sure --but it would have provided at least, A, a show of force. I'm not going 
23 to run towards a bunch of people with rifles. B, it would provide a little bit more 
24 security. We are --we do train, I believe, once a year, once every other year on shooting 
25 from 300 yards a way. So it does --you know, we are trained to be able to shoot long  26 
1 distances. And if somebody has a gun, and they're --they're taking out a first line of 
2 officers, who's behind them? That --you're first line of officers are gone. They're 
3 dead. There's --there's no one behind them. 
4 So that's --I think that was our reasoning was we were just like if somebody starts 
5 shooting, you know, and takes us out as the first line of defense, who's behind them to 
6 shoot them, you know? I mean, it's --it's officers who respond. Do they respond 
7 quickly enough? Do they know who's --we wanted somebody who's already there, 
8 who's watching the crowd to be able to respond to that, because any responding officer is 
9 going to have to now navigate --okay --who was the shooter. It --it would have added, 
10 I guess, a layer of protection, and a layer of comfort --maybe --to the officers, so --
11 Q So let's fast forward then. You said you received this briefing. It was on 
12 January 5th. 
13 A Mm-hmm. 
14 Q What time did you arrive at the Capitol on January 6th, and what was your 
15 shift for that day supposed to be? 
16 A I --I want to say it was like 8:00, 9:00 a.m., somewhere around that area, 
17 and it was supposed to be another 12-hour shift; and we were always given the caveat 
18 that if something happened, we would be staying longer. 
19 Q So --and I know this is --you only can really --well, correct me if I'm wrong. 
20 Do you know how many people were working that morning in the civil disturbance unit 
21 when you arrived at the Capitol Building, or --and if you don't, how many people were 
22 working with you at your location? 
23 A I knew we had --on the west front, we had around 30-something officers at 
24 the time that the first line was breached. 
25 Q And how does this 30 officers approximately compare to --let's use the  27 
1 December 12th rally? How does that compare in terms of manning, if you know? 
2 A I --I do not actually. I am not aware of --yeah. 
3 Q How --just what did you think of the 30 folks manning the west side of the 
4 Capitol? Did you feel comfortable with that number the morning of January 6th? 
5 A I --you know, after I received the text messages, I guess I felt a little uneasy 
6 all day, but, you know, numbers wasn't a huge problem for me. I guess I 
7 thought --because we were supposed to be hard platoon that day, and what they did for, 
8 say, Black Lives Matter --they brought in a soft platoon. So that's people who are not 
9 civilly --who are not civil disturbance unit trained, but they're in uniform of the day to 
10 stand the line, and then they have hard platoon waiting in the building to respond just in 
11 case --in their gear --just in case anything were to happen. 
12 They put two units of hard platoon officers as soft platoon out on the west front, 
13 and they said they had officers inside the building waiting to respond with hard gear. 
14 You know, I think it came --you know, it was approximately one to two platoons, and 
15 when both the east front and the west front broke bad, there weren't enough officers, 
16 hard platoon officers, to respond to the east front, because a lot of them, after my radio 
17 call --the officer down call --they responded towards the west front. 
18 So --but they did --I guess that hard platoon officers did show up from the House 
19 side and the Senate side as well, but most of them responded to the west front when 
20 they heard the officer down call. So that east front was left pretty vulnerable. 
21 Q So did you receive any more --any briefings the morning on January 6th or 
22 was it on January 5th --the only briefing that you received? 
23 A We received a briefing on January 6th. My memory is pretty spotty with 
24 the --but I think it was just reiterating more of the same from January 5th. 
25 Q Understand. I understand. And were you soft platoon?  1 
2 
3 A 
Q 
A I was supposed to be hard platoon. 
Okay. 
But they, for one reason or another, I'm not sure why they had me out on 
4 the west front without my gear. 
5 Q So I've seen some of the footage. It looks like it's you and four other 
6 Capitol Police Officers at the Peace Monument, Peace Circle area. Were you all, all 
7 supposed to be hard platoon that day? 
8 
9 A 
Q Yes, sir. 
Okay. And then you all, for whatever reason, were switched to soft 
10 platoon and put out on a guard on the northwest corner of the Capitol? 
11 
12 
13 A 
Q 
A Yes, sir. 
And what time did you get out to the Peace Circle area, if you recall? 
We were on and off for --so before that, it had just been me and another 
14 officer manning that post. And then it was around like 12:30, 1:00 p.m., and we were 
15 told we could go on our break, and so we were heading inside to go to lunch when we 28 
16 received a text from our sergeant saying, can you please come back. There are --there's 
17 a group approaching down --coming down Pennsylvania Avenue. 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q Okay. And we'll get into that in a second. 
Sure. 
Where were your protective gear if you had it all on January 6th? 
It was on a bus at Garfield Circle. 
Okay. And just for the record, approximately how far away was Garfield 
23 Circle from where you were standing? 
24 A I would say approximately, you know --I mean, it was a block away, like 
25 a --you know, I would say about 600, 700 feet, but the west --entire west front was  29 
1 blocked off by --by fencing --snow fencing and bike racks. So, you know, we would 
2 have been doing some fancy hurdling to --to get to our gear, and then, you know, there's 
3 the problem of where we're going to put it on if the west front is overtaken. 
4 So that --that seemed to me --that was the first time that I had done that put my 
5 gear on a bus, and then just told to go be soft platoon. That was the first time that had 
6 ever happened, and I remembered, you know, mentioning to somebody, you know, like 
7 my gear is on a bus over there like, and I'm surrounded by snow fencing. What am I 
8 supposed to do if something happens? So --
9 Officer Edwards, it sounds like --and correct me if I'm 
10 wrong --there wasn't a plan in place about how folks were supposed to get from where 
11 they were to the hard gear on the bus over the snow fencing if, in fact, they actually 
12 needed it. Is that a fair statement? 
13 Officer Edwards. That's a fair statement. If there was, the boots on the ground 
14 were not told. 
15 So you all --or you, in particular, even if there were a plan, no one 
16 told you what the plan was about how you were supposed to be able to get that stuff? 
Officer Edwards. No, sir. 17 
18 
19 
20 
21 Copy that. Thank you. 
Over to you, -
BY 
Q Thank you. So you mentioned a little about the staffing pre-12:30 p.m. 
22 You said when you were about to go to lunch, and then they called you back, but let's talk 
23 about the morning a little bit. 
24 And, can you please pull up the Quested Exhibit 15, 
25 please?  1 
2 Q And we'll give him a second to pull that up. Okay. We're going to play 
3 this exhibit, and actually, it's really just a still shot. It's a live photo. 
4 Can we zoom in a little bit on that or blow it up for the whole 
5 screen? It was full screen. You can do that,_ It's on my end, I believe. B-
Q Can you see this, Officer Edwards? 
A Yes, sir. 30 
6 
7 
8 
9 Q So what I would like to point out is, like there is one officer it looks like in the 
10 middle of the bike racks in the Peace Circle? 
11 
12 A Yes, sir. 
Q And this picture was taken at approximately 11:20 a.m. on January 6th. 
13 Does this look familiar from the morning of January 6th? 
14 
15 A Yes, sir. 
Q Do you recognize some of those individuals on the right-hand side of the 
16 picture? 
17 A I --that sleeve looks like to possibly the coat that Joe Biggs was wearing, and 
18 then that --the camo hat seems familiar. I did see a lot of camo hats though, so I will 
19 say. So --
20 Q So to put this in --this was a picture that was taken of the Proud Boys. 
21 They had just walked down the National Mall, gone to Garfield Circle --
22 
23 A Okay. 
Q Made a left, and now they're walking past the Peace Circle, and this is at 
24 approximately 11:20 a.m. There's one officer there. So how was the guard working at 
25 around 11:20 a.m. on January 6th?  31 
1 A Yeah, it was --before that officer, it was me and another officer who 
2 were on that --those risers, and we were just, like --he probably relieved us to go inside 
3 or maybe we relieved him or her, but yeah, I mean, it was --it was very minimal. 
4 Q So at any given moment, there would be one or two Capitol Police officers 
5 standing in that walkway; is that correct? 
6 
7 
8 A 
Q 
A Correct. 
And where were the other officers at that time? 
There were a couple to the --like from we're facing, to the left of that 
9 officer, and there was maybe around --the majority of the officers were in the middle of 
10 the west front. 
11 
12 Q 
A In the grassy area? 
In the grassy area. Now that doesn't make sense, but yeah, they were 
13 there in the grassy area as well as the officials were there in the grassy area in that middle 
14 section. And then there were probably one or two officers on the Maryland Avenue 
15 walkway over around Garfield Circle. 
16 Q And so were they --the other officers --how many officers were on guard 
17 with you at the Peace Circle? Was it five of you? 
18 A It was --at Peace Circle prior to us getting all called back, it was just one 
19 other officer, and then the two officers to the right of us and then a couple. So I would 
20 say, like --yeah, I would say it was four or five. 
21 Q And are the other officers standing inside at this point? I know it was cold 
22 that day, and it was freezing, so --
23 A No, they're --they're outside. They're all outside, unless they were on 
24 break, which they would probably --yes, they would probably be inside. 
25 Q Do you recall this group? It was about 200 Proud Boys that walked by  32 
1 early --or 11:00 a.m. time frame. Do you recall this group walking by? 
2 A I must have been inside. I don't recall, but there were --there were several 
3 groups that walked around all day. We kind of got people all day, you know, traversing 
4 First Street. 
5 You can take this down. 
6 
7 Q One thing I also wanted to ask. So I know there were a number of events 
8 that were permitted to happen on the Capitol grounds on January 6th. Were you 
9 tracking those events as well? 
10 
11 
12 A 
Q 
A I'm not aware of any tracking that was going on. 
Okay. 
We usually receive radio calls about, you know, intel units that are, you 
13 know, SOD, which is our special operations division. They're in the patrol cars. They 
14 usually, kind of, call out intermittent radio calls about, you know, there's a group heading 
15 this way, there's a group heading that way. I believe a lot of them were detained over 
16 at the pipe bomb incidents. I believe that's where a lot of our patrols were --were kind 
17 of situated, and I'm not sure if that's where our intel units were as well, or what was 
18 happening. 
19 Q But you do recall a number --some number of patrol officers responding to 
20 the pipe bomb incident? 
21 
22 A 
Q Yes, sir. 
But you weren't necessarily tracking permitted events happening on, like lot 
23 8, 9, 10 or 11 on the east side of the Capitol? 
24 
25 A 
Q No, sir. 
Would that have --would that knowledge have impacted maybe --like I'm  33 
1 just assuming that if you see individuals walking towards the Capitol, you know there's an 
2 event going on --
3 
4 A 
Q Right. 
That's different than individuals approaching the Capitol when no event is 
5 going on; is that fair to say? 
6 
7 A 
Q That's fair to say. 
So do you recall --you mentioned this a little bit, but a crowd forming up, 
8 more numbers forming up at the Peace Circle, maybe right after noon time frame on 
9 January 6th? 
10 A Yes, sir. Yeah. So a group came down --I want to say, when we were 
11 called back to --we were heading into the building, and we were called back --there was 
12 a group already formed kind of at Peace Circle. And then a group came from, like the 
13 northwest side of First Street heading south, and they were chanting, pardon my 
14 language, they were chanting, "Fuck Antifa," and they were coming down First Street 
15 towards Peace Circle where they met up with that initial group that had gathered there. 
16 Q Did you understand the group that was marching south on First Street to be 
17 the Proud Boys, even if it was later on? Is that the group that was marching down First 
18 Street chanting, "Fuck Antifa?" 
19 A They were all wearing orange I want to --I want to say, so we didn't know 
20 what group that was, or I didn't. Yeah, I just remember orange hats or something. 
21 Yes. 
22 Q And what was the --I know there's some obscenities that were being said. 
23 What was the mood of the crowd as it was starting to form up between 12 --let's just say 
24 12:00 to about 12:45 time frame? What was the general mood? 
25 A So the general mood was angry, and I've worked enough events where I can  34 
1 tell they're angry about a situation or they're starting to get angry at me. If I can get like 
2 a little academic about this. 
3 
4 Q 
A Please. 
It's one of two things. I like to call it, like transforming the officer into an 
5 animal or transforming the --well, transforming the, you know, subject into an animal or 
6 transforming the subject into a villain. And we heard, "animal," we heard, "you're 
7 Nancy Pelosi's dogs. Bark for us." 
8 And then I started hearing villain where they were saying stuff like --Joe Biggs, 
9 actually, was saying stuff like, you --you didn't miss a paycheck during the 
10 pandemic --because everybody hates rich people, right? They hate people who got 
11 paid when they didn't. So they started mentioning our pay scale, like they had done 
12 their research, and I had heard this type of stuff before with, like Black Lives Matter when 
13 they were painting the villain --us as the villain, or, you know, saying like, you know, 
14 you're pigs or, you know whatever. 
15 But I --I had not heard that from this type of group, and that's when I started to 
16 get concerned because it was like their speech is now towards us. 
17 Q So you mentioned that you had had words directed at you in the past from 
18 Black Lives Matter. Was this situation different, though, on January 6th with the words 
19 being directed at you? At this moment, did you feel it was different, at least? 
20 A I --no, and, I mean, Black Lives Matter is just an example. There have been 
21 other groups. I --the situation was different, because I was not prepared for that 
22 rhetoric. When their rhetoric started, that's when I grew concerned --is because, you 
23 know, like all the pieces start falling into your head, right? Like, you know, you're like, 
24 okay, well, you said they have weapons; you said that they, you know, whatever; and now 
25 they're starting to paint me as the villain and me as an animal. What's about to happen  35 
1 here. 
2 And I think that was when I turned to my sergeant, Sergeant Lively, and I stated 
3 probably the most, you know, anti --like, you know, I laugh at it now, but I turned to him 
4 and I was like, Sergeant, I think we're going to need a couple more people down here. 
5 And, you know, that's the understatement of the century. But that's what --that's when 
6 I knew that something wasn't right. 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 - Thank you, sir. 
Officer Edwards, I appreciate that, and I realize I'm just asking you your opinion. 
Officer Edwards. Sure. 
So that's fine. Give me your opinion on this next question, but 
12 why do you think that was? Like, you know, and when we talked about December 12th, 
13 you said that it was a pro-police crowd. Now we're in January 6th. You're getting the 
14 distinct impression it's not the same thing. From your perspective, why do you think 
15 that was. 
16 Officer Edwards. They were trying to whip the crowd into a frenzy. They were 
17 trying to paint a --you know, this is a pro-police crowd. How are you are going to get 
18 them to start beating on police officers and that's to use rhetoric; that's to paint them as 
19 villains; that's to paint them as animals. You know, that's --it's --it's textbook, you 
20 know, whipping --whipping somebody into a frenzy --or there's a legal term for it, but I 
21 don't remember it now. But essentially just, I guess, you know, like trying to get 
22 somebody to do something. If you --if you want, you know --like I'm a --I'm a 
23 mild-mannered person, but, you know, if you wanted me to hurt somebody in this room, 
24 you'd start painting them, and being like look at them. They --you know, they made 
25 more money than you; they don't do anything; they respond to, you know, they're so and  36 
1 so, like, you know, they're this villain. And it --it makes somebody want to hurt 
2 somebody else, and that's what I --I caught on to as I was like they're trying to get this 
3 crowd to commit violence by --by using this rhetoric, by using this --these kinds of --and 
4 I thought that --and this isn't --this is not me thinking this --this is not hindsight 20/20. 
5 This is literally my thoughts in the moment. Because I did --I got very concerned, and I 
6 turned to my sergeant and I said, I think we're going to need more people. Like this is 
7 not --this isn't good. 
8 So these are all kind of thoughts to you --and it's just crowd behavior. It's just 
9 from working, you know, hundreds of these events that I can tell when I'm --I'm being 
10 painted personally as a villain and what's going to happen next, so --
11 Thank you, Officer Edwards. And one quick follow-up, when you 
12 say "they" --you may have mentioned earlier in response to my colleague's question. 
13 
14 
15 Officer Edwards. Absolutely. 
- But who do you mean when you say "they"? 
Officer Edwards. Who I now know to be the Proud Boys. Joseph Biggs was the 
16 main instigator, and he was the one talking to this crowd, painting this picture. 
17 - Thank you, ma'am. 
18 Back over to you, 
19 thank you. That's a perfect segue. 
20 So,_, can you please pull up Quested Exhibit 19. 
21 BY 
22 Q 
23 just now? 
24 
25 A 
Q Is this the Mr. Biggs individual at the Peace Circle that you were referencing 
Yes, in the plaid and black hat. 
Okay. And we'll talk about the other gentlemen in the photo shortly, but  37 
1 you mentioned that Mr. Biggs was --1 don't want to put words in your mouth. How did 
2 the mood change or how did the crowd change once Mr. Biggs arrived at the Peace 
3 Circle? 
4 A The mood --you know, the mood was --was already pretty charged, you 
5 know, but they had been --they had been talking about, you know, "fuck Antifa." The 
6 mood quickly changed from --it --it seemed very targeted towards us, and anger was 
7 being targeted instead of like, towards, you know, Antifa or Congress or anything like 
8 that, it was more directed towards us as individuals. 
9 Q So it was almost like general disagreement then was turned to direct chants 
10 at you as the Capitol Police Officers? 
11 
12 A 
Q Yes. 
And you said earlier, the understatement that you made to your sergeant 
13 with you --I guess, can you describe to us how you said it? Was it animated? Were 
14 you still --you're pretty cool and calm right now in the room. Were you feeling that way 
15 in the moment as well? 
16 A I --I was nervous. I was nervous at that time, but, you know, I --I did not in 
17 my --I still did not in my wildest imagination believe that they were going to try to, I 
18 guess, beat us up in the way that they did. You know, I --I figured they would --they 
19 would tear down some fencing, intimidate us, possibly start tearing down the 
20 inauguration stage. 
21 That was the extent of my --my imagination as to how this was going to go, 
22 because they were not, as of yet --I --I do not recall any specific plans being stated of, 
23 you know --they did say, "This is our house." They asked, "Can we go up there?" And 
24 we expressly shook our heads no. And, you know, they were saying, "Well, this is our 
25 house. This is --this is the people's house." So it was like, okay, they're going to tear  38 
1 down some --some fencing, they're going to come on to the west front, they're going to 
2 get loud, and then, you know, whatever. 
3 So I think I got offtrack. 
4 Q No, no, that's fine. No, that's actually --so you said there were chants like, 
5 "This is our house," and "This is the people's house"? 
6 
7 A 
Q Yes. 
And I just want to go through some other topics. Do you recall any chants 
8 about Vice President Pence? 
9 
10 A 
Q No, not at that time. 
Do you recall any chants about --you mentioned Speaker Pelosi. You heard 
11 chants about her? 
12 
13 
14 A 
Q 
A Yes, specifically. 
Can you just give us a few examples of those chants, if you remember? 
A lot of them at the time were just --they were --they were barking at us 
15 because they said, "You're Nancy Pelosi's dogs. Bark for us, dogs." 
16 And then later on, you know, there were --there were certain things about, you 
17 know, her, you know, helping to steal the election, and then, you know --now I don't 
18 want to lose my job, so, again, quoting, "Fuck Nancy Pelosi." Yeah, so there were some 
19 quotes that I heard. 
20 Q And when they were referring to you all as the Speaker's dog --and, again, 
21 I'm sorry that you all were having insults hurled at you like that --were they actually using 
22 the word "dog" or were they using other language? 
23 
24 
25 A 
Q 
A They were using "dogs," yes, yeah. 
And you mentioned there were chants about the election being stolen. 
Yes.  39 
1 
2 
3 Q Were there any other chants about the election in particular that you recall? 
A I don't recall. I don't recall. 
Q Okay. And do recall any chants about the session that was supposed to 
4 start at 1:00 p.m., right? So this is around 12:30. The Joint Session is supposed to start 
5 at 1:00 o'clock. So do you recall any chants about the upcoming joint session? 
6 
7 A I don't. I don't recall anything being mentioned. 
Q Okay. I'm going to go through what we just showed you, the Exhibit with 
8 Mr. Biggs and another individual, and we'll come back to that --
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 A Sure. 
Q --to that picture. 
But- can we please up Quested Exhibit 14. 
B 
Q And I'm going to show you a couple of other pictures and just see if you 
14 recognize anyone and what you remember from January 6th about them? 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 A Okay. 
Q Okay. So do you recall any of these individuals? 
A Could you back up real quick? Sorry --so I do recall the guy in black. 
Q Sunglasses on? 
A With the sunglasses on. 
Q So for the record, this is Quested Exhibit 14, and the witness is referring to 
21 the individual on the far left with the speaker phone, black sunglasses and black hat on 
22 backwards? 
23 A Yes, and I want to say that possibly might have been the mega phone that 
24 Joe Biggs took from this individual, but I'm not 100 percent sure. 
25 Q But you do remember seeing him at the Peace Circle?  1 
2 
3 A Yes. 
Q What if anything stands out about when you saw him at the Peace Circle? 
A I just know that he was hanging around Joe Biggs. I don't really recall. 
4 know that he had been, like kind of the one --like one of the ones initially like on the 
5 megaphone yelling things. I don't recall what he was stating. 
6 Q Was he part of the group that when they arrived at the Peace Circle, the 
7 mood changed, like you described earlier? 
8 
9 
10 
11 A Yes, yeah. 
Q All right. And you don't recognize any other individuals in this picture? 
A No. 
Q That's all right. Thank you. 
12 now can we pull up Exhibit 1. No, not from 
13 Mr. --Exhibit 1 from the folder --from the Officer Edwards folder. Thank you, 
14 -
15 
16 So can we scroll down to the picture? No picture. Okay. Never mind. 
BY 40 
17 Q Do you recall Mr. --a Ray Epps that was at --who was a taller individual with 
18 a red hat? You have to forgive me there's no picture on this --on this actual copy. 
19 A I do --I do not. 
20 Q Okay. Maybe we can take a quick break and find a picture of him to show 
21 it to you, just to make sure we understand --to see if you remember this individual. 
22 
23 
24 
25 A Sure. 
Q And then let's pull up Quested Exhibit 19 again. 
(Discussion off the record. ) 
BY  41 
Q So do you recognize the man in the red hat next to Mr. Biggs? 
A I do. 
Q And how do you remember him? 1 
2 
3 
4 A That's --I believe that's Ryan Samsel. He was conferring with Joe Biggs, and 
5 after Joe Biggs kind of --you know, they conferred, he and a couple of other individuals 
6 raced up to the bike racks where we were, and he started engaging with myself and a 
7 couple of other officers. 
8 Q Okay. So just to get this timing down, you recall --do you recall Mr. Samsel 
9 having his hand around Mr. Biggs' shoulder like this? 
10 A I --I don't recall that. I do recall them speaking at some point. I do recall 
11 seeing them talking to each other. 
12 Q And it was shortly after they were talking to each other that you then 
13 remember Mr. Samsel walking up towards the fencing? 
14 
15 A Yes. 
Q Approximately how long, if you even remember --and I know this is a 
16 ballpark --
17 
18 
19 A 
Q 
A Right. 
Do you remember them talking? 
I --I want to say it was a very, very quick conversation, because he had kind 
20 of stopped being on the bull horn, stopped, you know, whatever. I want to say they had 
21 knocked down one line of snow fencing, and --because there --there was a level of bike 
22 racks. There were like two levels of bike racks in front of us. There was one at --like at 
23 Peace Circle. 
24 
25 Q 
A Let's do this. This might help actually. 
Okay.  42 
1 So can we pull up --this is from the Officer Edwards Exhibit folder. 
2 - can we pull up Exhibit 2? 
3 BY 
4 
5 Circle. 
6 
7 Q 
A 
Q So just to give you background, this is actual surveillance from the Peace 
Okay. 
And we'll just play it all the way through. It's about a minute and 30. 
8 That's the time in question, and then we'll come back, and ask a few questions. 
9 
10 
11 Q And can we fast forward to the 1:10 mark? Perfect. 
BY 
So it looks like you all just walk down the steps towards the fencing, and it 
12 looks like there are individuals walking towards the fence right now. 
13 A Yes. So they had --they had ripped down one line of fencing, and that's 
14 when we approached the fence --the fence that we were at. And there was no one at 
15 that initial fence line, and then a man in a black skullcap, black hood, and then like a 
16 Punisher --like a Punisher gaiter --neck gaiter. He was there. I know Ryan Samsel was 
17 there. Those were the two that stood out to me the most. My memory does get a 
18 little spotty around here, because I was knocked unconscious. 
19 
20 
21 Q 
A 
Q We understand. 
But --
And so just for the record, on the video that's been playing for about a 
22 minute and a half or so, the protesters have already, it appears, gotten through the 
23 Capitol Police line and are making their way towards the west plaza. 
24 So you can stop it, - thank you. 
25 B  43 
1 Q It appears at 1:30 of you all coming down from your step position to the first 
2 fencing is when the protesters then broke through the fencing --
3 
4 
5 
6 A 
Q 
A 
Q Yes. 
--where you were all physically manning it; is that correct? 
That's correct. 
And you said you remember --and I know you're --it's more spotty at this 
7 time due to injuries that the protesters caused on you, but you remember Mr. Samsel, 
8 who had on the red hat on backwards and like a jean blue jacket; is that correct? 
9 
10 
11 A 
Q 
A Yes, yes. 
And you remember another individual. Was it a male? 
Male, young male. He --he kind of --this was after --he was one of the 
12 ones who had talked about our paycheck, and then he, afterwards, was one of the ones 
13 who started fighting with my friend, Officer Cruise. 
14 Q And who was --was there someone, like one of the protesters --was 
15 Mr. Samsel directly in front of you? 
16 A I --I don't recall. 
17 
18 
19 Q 
A 
Q Okay. 
I don't recall who was in front of me. 
So I guess --and I understand that you were injured, so just walk us through 
20 what you remember from the point of Mr. Samsel and the other individual walking 
21 through the first fence, you all walking down the steps to approach them. What do you 
22 remember after that, Officer Edwards? 
23 A I remember I had two bike racks, like I went over to the link of the two bike 
24 racks --because there was only four of us. So I had two of the bike racks myself, and I 
25 just --like I put my arms through, and like I took like this stance of, you know, like a  44 
1 leaning forward stance. 
2 Q You widen your stance, and you were actually linking the two bike racks 
3 together with your arms? 
4 A Yes. With my arms, yeah. So, you know, they started pushing on it. It 
5 wasn't going anywhere, so they actually --it was all --I do remember --recall it was 
6 all --all males. They --they lifted the bike rack, and I can recall it, like, you know, I'm 
7 here and I recall the bike rack like kind of coming down on top of me, and they 
8 started --and it hit me like right --right in this temple area. And then I was holding onto 
9 it. And they started pushing me backwards, using the bike rack to kind of push me 
10 backwards, and the last thing I remember is going down and my chin hitting the handrail, 
11 and then that's where I fell backwards and the back of my head hit concrete. 
12 
13 Q And I'm sorry to hear that --about that, Officer Edwards. 
So to just make sure we understand, it sounds like while you were --there was no 
14 link between the two bike racks. That's why you were holding it with your arms? 
15 A There were --there were. There --it --they link together. I just --you 
16 know, I was just trying to, I guess, you know, make as much force as possible so that they 
17 couldn't break it. 
18 Q And you were trying to create force, because at this time it was pretty clear 
19 that these individuals were trying to push through the fencing? 
20 
21 A Yes, yeah, because they had already broken one --one chain of fencing. 
Q And when the bike rack hit you, you were pointing to your left temple; is 
22 that correct? 
23 A Yes, yeah, I think I had like kind of turned my head, and like it came 
24 down --the top of it came down on top of me. I thought one of them had punched me 
25 at first, but then I think when I watched the video over again, I realized it wasn't like a fist.  45 
1 It was the bike rack hitting me in the --in the forehead. 
Q And so did you go unconscious at this time when you were knocked over? 
A I went unconscious after my chin hit the handrail. 
Q Okay. 2 
3 
4 
5 A That's kind of the last --I just remembered like a ringing in my ear, and that's 
6 kind of the last thing I remember. And then I remember waking up on my feet, and 
7 I --you know, I don't --I don't really recall too much. I know that my friend, Officer 
8 Stacken burg, was there, and Ryan Samsel was in the area, and that's kind of like what I 
9 remember. And then I watched --like I just like dazedly watched the guy with the 
10 gaiter --the Punisher logo skull gaiter try to fight my friend Cruise, and I remember just 
11 kind of trying to will my body like, okay, you need to go over there and help. But like I 
12 was just out --like out, and it wasn't until my friend Stacken burg said, we need to go, that 
13 like I think adrenaline kicked in, and I was able to just like function. 
14 
15 man? 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 Q So where were you at this point with Officer Stackenburg when --is it a 
A Yes, yes. 
Q When he said we need to go? 
A I was at the top of those stairs. 
Q On the northwest corner at the top? 
A At the --it was like --yeah, it was at the top of the stairs where I had hit my 
21 head; more towards the --yeah, the top of those --those stairs. 
22 
23 Q And do you recall where you all went after that? 
A We went to --we ran to the west front. We tried to hold the line right 
24 where there's like a --there's like a concrete wall where the grass ends and the --like the 
25 lower west terrace of the west front begins, and we rushed there, and we were, you  46 
1 know --I was just, you know, screaming like, get back, you know; don't take one more 
2 step; like, get back, get back. And they were saying stuff like, make us; this is our house. 
3 I had --at one point, I had gotten my pepper spray out, because, you know, I felt 
4 threatened at this point for obvious reasons, and while I was up there, Ryan Samsel 
5 approached me, and he gave me my hat back, and he said I'm the one that picked you off 
6 the ground, remember? Of course, I don't remember. I was knocked unconscious. 
7 But it gave me --and the women in the room will understand this --it gave me like 
8 bad --like I told the FBI before I knew his background that it gave me like domestic abuser 
9 vibes. Like he --he was just like very insistent --that he was like, don't you remember? 
10 I'm the one that picked you up. Don't remember? And like, you now, I mean, we've all 
11 been like at a party and that guy starts it, and you're like, oh, no, uh-huh. So that --that 
12 was the vibe that I got. It was just like this I need to get away from this person, even 
13 though he was trying to be nice and give me my hat back, or like, you know --
14 Q Almost remediating the situation that he had originally caused? 
15 A Yes, yes, that was the vibe that I got --was just like it was this: Oh, no, no, 
16 no, don't you remember? I'm the one that picked you up. And I was just like, yeah, 
17 there's something not right here. So I got myself away from him, and I went to the 
18 stairs --the --the north side stairs of the west front and held the line there. 
19 Q Okay. So you mentioned some of the chants on the west plaza. Were 
20 they similar to the chants you were hearing at the Peace Circle or were they different? 
21 A They --they were similar, and they were also more broad. You know, some 
22 of them --it was a mix. Some of them towards us, you know, that --that same like vibe 
23 towards us, some of them towards Congress. 
24 
25 Q 
A What was being said towards Congress, if you remember? 
They just --you know, stuff like, they just they don't do anything for us,  47 
1 they're worthless. Like, you know, you're supposed to be working for the people. And 
2 then we got a lot of --you know, the Capitol Police, we got a lot of: You don't have to 
3 stand in our way, just like move aside. Our fight's not with you; stuff like that. 
4 Q Did you get any chants or hear anybody say anything to you about your oath 
5 or anything like that? 
6 A There was --that does ring a bell. Like that --there was something about, 
7 yeah, you took an oath to the Constitution, your oath is to the Constitution, not to this 
8 building, or something like that. I did hear like people kind of state that to me. 
9 Q So you continued even after you were hurt in the very beginning. You 
10 continued to defend the line on the west plaza? 
11 
12 
13 line? 
14 
15 A 
Q 
A 
Q Yes, sir. 
Approximately how long, if you know, did you stay out there defending the 
I want to say for approximately two hours possibly. 
And where did you go after that two hours? Did you go back to get medical 
16 attention or --
17 A Well, so I was kind of all over the place on the west front. I ended up --at 
18 one point, I ended up on the south side of the west front where I was on the line with 
19 Officer Sicknick, and we --we were holding that line for a while. There were --you 
20 know, there were people who --the chants were the same, like, "Bark for me, Nancy 
21 Pelosi's dogs." One guy tried to kiss me, which is really gross. 
22 And they --like I remember --and this is --you know, this is a matter of seconds, 
23 like you watch the video, but everything kind of slowed down for me at that time. 
24 watched --I saw movement out of the corner of my eye, and I turned, and I saw Officer 
25 Sicknick, and his face --I could tell he had been sprayed with something, and his face was  48 
1 like white. It was pale. And, you know, if I --if any of us here gets sprayed with 
2 something, our faces turn beet red, like that's usually the reaction. So I can remember 
3 alarm bells going off, and, again, this isn't hindsight 20/20. This is actually what was 
4 happening --going through my mind at the time. It was just like that officer's intuition 
5 of like --I was like --like what's --what's wrong with Sicknick? Because if you looked 
6 around, everybody was red faced, and everybody was coughing because there was all this 
7 smoke and --you know, in the air, but he was pale. And I didn't like that, so I turned 
8 towards the crowd to see like who sprayed him, what he had gotten sprayed with, and 
9 that's when I got a direct hit in the eyes with chemical spray. 
10 And it turns out it was the same chemical spray that he got hit with. And I 
11 remember it hurting a lot more, which is saying something, because the 
12 academy's --our --our pepper spray is --well, it's actually Sabre Red. It's no joke. It 
13 literally feels like someone punched --just punched like two holes in your eye sockets. 
14 This felt like --like a --it was just pain unimaginable. I couldn't even --I couldn't even 
15 begin to open my eyes. Like it was just immediately, and it --and this also too --like I 
16 had, you know, water on my face. It would have been a number of things to make it 
17 hurt more, but it was --I thought it was extremely painful. 
18 And so I was stumbling around a bit. Some officers got me to the middle of the 
19 west front, like they got me off of that section, and that's when --and they had --they 
20 had begun to kind of get it out of my eyes a little bit, but the line behind me broke and 
21 there were people coming. So one officer got to me to the middle of the west front, and 
22 that's when my husband, who was on the line, he actually saw me. He came 
23 over --rushed over and grabbed me, and he was bringing me up to the building. I still 
24 had all the stuff in my eyes, and that's when I got hit with a --CS gas. That's when I got 
25 hit with tear gas.  49 
1 So the combination of the chemicals made my throat immediately close. 
2 couldn't --I couldn't take a breath at all, and, you know, I just remembered, you 
3 know --that was one of a few times that day where I was like, yeah, this is --this is 
4 probably like where I'm not going to make it. But thankfully, there was a hazardous 
5 device section officer, an HDS section officer, who was up there with oxygen, and they 
6 started giving me oxygen. They took off my vest and my --my gun belt, and so they 
7 started giving me oxygen, and I came back --yeah --or I started breathing normally. 
8 And my husband tried to take --he took me to headquarters to recuperate, and I 
9 think he was going to call the ambulance. I was --that's where I proceeded to be --I --I 
10 was physically ill at headquarters, but then the shots fired call came out over the radio, 
11 and so we ran back towards the Capitol at that point. 
12 
13 fired? 
14 
15 Q So at around shortly after 2:40 p.m., Eastern time, when you heard the shots 
A Yes. 
Q You left headquarters where you were being attended to to go back to the 
16 Capitol? 
17 
18 A Went back to the Capitol, yeah. 
Q And what did you see or where did you go when you returned back to the 
19 Capitol? 
20 A So I was in the Senate subway. You know, we --they were starting to lock 
21 down all the doors. Officer Zak was locking down all the doors, and she --she actually 
22 got my husband to help her. 
23 And so I started --I didn't really--kind of--at that point know, you 
24 know --okay --what doors are locked down? Where do I go? I didn't have anybody to 
25 go with me, so I stayed in the Senate subway with a group of officers that were holding  50 
1 the subway, and I heard a breach in the Senate subway call go out over the radio, so I 
2 responded up towards the Senate carry out --that like little cafeteria there towards the 
3 vending machines. 
4 And at that time --I'm sorry --and at that time, we were also bringing me and a 
5 couple of other officers had --were assisting staffers like exiting the building through the 
6 Senate subway. So we had kind of --were pointing them towards where they were 
7 going, and then, you know, assisting staffers who were --there was one who was 
8 handicapped, so, you know, I got her a chair, and other officers wheeled her. So we 
9 were kind of holding that area. 
10 I approached the breach, and there was a man sitting there being attended to 
11 officers. He was --he was stating that he had been pepper sprayed, and he was stating 
12 that he was having a possible --sorry --a possible heart attack. So I still had the oxygen 
13 and --from --that I was administered in my pocket, and I gave him the oxygen, and I 
14 wheeled him out of the Senate subway to be treated medically. 
15 After he received medical attention from D.C. Fire, I put him in handcuffs, and I 
16 told him he was under arrest, and I took him to prisoner processing. And at that time, 
17 when I was in prisoner processing, I started to --I just --I started to notice that I was out 
18 of it. I've --I've been in prisoner processing I can't even tell you how many times, but I 
19 started asking like where are the computers? And I sat down to put my password --my 
20 user name and password in, and that's when I just slumped over, and I woke up in a cold 
21 sweat. And I --I went to the captain who was there --Captain Turner --and I said 
22 something's wrong. 
23 And I hadn't really processed that I had been hit as badly as I thought. I didn't 
24 know that I had blacked out due to the fact I woke up on my feet, so I thought, you know, 
25 I had just --I don't know what I thought. But, you know, he started asking me what  51 
1 day it was, like simple questions. I couldn't really answer them so he put me in a 
2 ambulance at around --I think this was around like 5:00, 5:30 --5:00 to 5:30 is when I 
3 finally --
4 Q So as things in the Capitol were starting to come a little more under control, 
5 is when you were put in a ambulance, and what hospital did you go to? 
6 
7 A 
Q The Adventist Hospital --White Oak possibly --White Oak Adventist. 
I also want to go back, and I know --I'm not trying to play Monday morning 
8 quarterback --
9 A Sure, absolutely. 
10 Q But one question we have is why, I guess, weren't weapons drawn or any 
11 type of force used at the Peace Circle? 
12 A No, absolutely. So the outnumbering --the fact that we were just so 
13 outnumbered, we --you know, like whenever I would go hands on with somebody 
14 throughout the day, you know, I'd get four people surrounding me. Like it was --it was 
15 just --we were completely outnumbered, and, you know, there was a part of us that, I 
16 guess --you know, there were a couple of things. It was time. So, you know, had we 
17 started shooting and they started shooting, they probably would have gotten through the 
18 line faster, so we were just kind of biding --you know, using ourselves as human shields 
19 to give people inside more time to get out, you know. 
20 And then it was --yeah, it was just the sheer number of people to where --and it 
21 was also, you know, you never want to be the person who shoots an innocent bystander. 
22 So the --the number of people --you know, you're in a situation like that, you draw your 
23 gun, you shoot at somebody with --who's coming at you with a lead pipe, and you hit 
24 somebody who brought their kid. You know, you've got to live with that for the rest of 
25 your life.  52 
1 So it was a --it was a mess. It was --there were so many times where I thought I 
2 should have drawn my weapon. I should have, you know --at the very --when they 
3 knocked me out, I should have just --you know. But it was --I think it was just an 
4 instinct thing. We were just like, we just got to keep fighting. 
5 And we didn't know what was coming next. Like we --at every point, we were 
6 like, okay, what do we do? Maybe they're just here to like yell and scream, you know. 
7 Like, okay, there are these guys, but like maybe the rest of them are just here to yell and 
8 scream, and then they're going to go, and then we're going to deal with the bad --the bad 
9 people. But it just kept escalating. At --you know, and by that time, you're just in the 
10 fight, and you're not even --
11 Q Was part of the analysis you just went through in terms of whether to draw 
12 your weapon was this something you were discussing with your peers or something that 
13 you were doing internally, like on your own? 
14 
15 
16 
17 A 
Q 
A 
Q Internally, yeah. 
Yeah. 
I think we were all having that internal discussion with ourselves. 
And was your briefing that you previously received about protesters possibly 
18 having weapons, was that in the back of your mind? 
19 A Sure, absolutely. Yeah, and I actually spent the entire time looking at 
20 people's hands when --after I got hit, I was just like looking at waistbands the entire time, 
21 just to make sure, you know. But now --now I know that they had them in backpacks, 
22 and all of that stuff, and so --but yeah. 
23 Q And just to that point as well, you mentioned a chemical spray that were 
24 sprayed at you and on you. What other weapons if any did you recall seeing throughout 
25 the day on January 6th?  53 
1 A I didn't see many weapons, other than they were just using makeshift stuff. 
2 They were, you know, pulling down the construction stuff. They were using that on us. 
3 They were using the flag poles. You know, I remember at one time just seeing, you 
4 know, people getting hit with blue line flags, and just thinking like, is this real life? Like 
5 are these people serious? American flags, blue line flags --just they were using these 
6 flag poles as weapons. 
7 Q So using back-the-blue type flags? 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 A 
Q 
A Yes. 
To harm you? 
Yes, to harm police officers. 
Does anyone else have any follow-up questions about that subject 
or these subjects on January 6th? 
Hey,_ Can you hear me okay? 
Yes, we can hear you, 
So I apologize. I had to switch to mobile, so I could make another 
16 appointment, so I don't have my video though. 
17 Officer Edwards, my question is, prior to January 6th, did it ever occur --and I'm 
18 asking for your opinion --did it ever occur to you that people might actually physically 
19 break into to the Capitol? Is that something that, as an officer, that you all sort of 
20 thought might be a possibility, or was it such a foreign concept that the very notion that it 
21 was happening was --was what, in part, caught you all by surprise? 
22 Officer Edwards. It was such a foreign concept for --for the audience. You 
23 know, we had always --we had been taught --and they're still teaching this down in 
24 FLETC, in Georgia. They're teaching counterterrorism. They're teaching what happens 
25 when, you know, a foreign entity approaches you, and states they have a bomb. They  54 
1 are not teaching what happens when an American citizen comes and tries to overthrow a 
2 seat of their own government. And it's frustrating to see, even after these events have 
3 happened. It's --it's frustrating to --because I know that they are --I know people who 
4 are down at FLETC currently, and they're asking these questions, and the rhetoric that 
5 some of these instructors are giving them --it's --you know, it's 1st Amendment. That's 
6 1st Amendment stuff. I don't recall you can hit police officers with, you know, poles and 
7 hammers and spray being in the 1st Amendment of the Constitution. 
8 But that, you know --it was so foreign to us that American citizens would try to 
9 destroy their own building, their own seat of the democracy, that I think that we were 
10 taken completely by surprise. I remember a lot of people told me --and myself 
11 included --the like dialogue going through your head is what happens next? What's 
12 their end goal? What are they doing? And that was the --that was the thought 
13 throughout the day. We had no clue that their intention was to, you know, destroy their 
14 own symbol of democracy. 
15 I appreciate that, Officer Edwards. I am going to thank you for 
16 your time. I won't be able to stay for the reminder of the interview, because I've got to 
17 get to another appointment. But I want to one, thank you for your time today, and 
18 previously, and also thank you for your service with the Capitol Police. And I'll turn you 
19 back over to my colleague,_ 
20 Officer Edwards. Thank you so much. 
21 B-
22 Q So we're clearly post January 6th. Can you just describe the types of 
23 injuries if any that you sustained on January 6th? 
24 A Sure. I sustained a concussion. It has been described to me as a 
25 traumatic brain injury. The injury has had side effects of what's called vasovagal  55 
1 syncopathy. Don't quote me on that, but essentially, I would --my fight or flight 
2 response was messed up due to the area of my head that was hit, and I would have 
3 almost --like if you --if you can't see blood and you see blood and you pass out, that's 
4 what I would feel, like that --that blacking out sensation, but it would be random, and it 
5 would be no warning. That, thankfully, has subsided. 
6 But yeah, just --you know --and then I was having severe ear pain and ear ringing 
7 from the --my jaw hitting the railing, so --
8 And then with the --with the chemical spray that day, I had burns underneath my 
9 eyes, which thankfully have gone away. The ones on my hands still kind of remain, but 
10 they're --they're very light. I've been able to kind of keep them at bay, so yeah. I was 
11 just --you know, that --that chemical spray, and then I also --I went to Johns Hopkins, 
12 and they stated that I had minor chemical burns on my vocal cords. 
13 
14 
15 day. 
16 
17 
18 
19 Q From inhaling possibly? 
A Yeah, from --yeah, from just the mix of the --mix of the chemicals that a 
Q I'm sorry to hear about these injuries, Officer Edwards. 
A That's okay. 
Q I guess, did you --did you go through any rehab after this or any procedures? 
A I did. I went through a lot of physical therapy to get my balance back. 
20 had severe balance issues as well as vertigo, and then I --you know, I had to get extensive 
21 heart, like cardiac testing, because they wanted to make sure that the blacking out wasn't 
22 due to, like a heart problem. So I went through that, but, you know, I have --I have 
23 been cleared by a doctor to go back to full duty now, so I'm just waiting on the 
24 department. 
25 Q That's --I'm happy to hear that. That was actually my next question. How  56 
1 have you been off the --I'm assuming you're off the line right now. 
2 
3 
4 A 
Q 
A Yeah. 
How long have you been off the line? 
Yeah, a year --what is it? A year and five months now. A year and five 
5 months --too long --three or four months. 
6 Q How has this if at all impacted you emotionally or personally or anything like 
7 that? 
8 A I mean, there's --there's severe --being off the line is tough. You know, I 
9 know --I know some of you all are prior military, right. 
10 
11 Q 
A That's right, yes. 
When you stop being a soldier, it's tough. You know, that was your 
12 identity, that was your whole being, your whole --that was your --you were the team, 
13 and now you're no longer part of that team, that's no longer your identity. You know, 
14 you go through this intense identity crisis of who am I without the uniform, and so that's, 
15 you know, that's been a struggle. 
16 And then, you know, personally wise, I mean, my --my husband and I both went 
17 through it, and --and we're currently separating, just because the trauma was too much 
18 for either one of us to handle. 
19 So it's --it took a toll on officers, but, you know, that's why I'm so happy that the 
20 department has put this emphasis on the peer support program, and let me be a part of 
21 it, which is a complete honor to me. You know, I don't --maybe they shouldn't let 
22 somebody so broken be a part of it. No. But, I mean, it's --it's great to now be able to 
23 take all of that and be able to do something good with it and so --
24 Q And it's, look, I can't --I can't applaud you enough for the way 
25 you've --seems like you've approached January 6th, itself, the rehab to help get yourself  1 back 100 percent, and also while doing that, get the department to a better place. So 
2 that is commendable in a way that I can't even articulate. 
Thank you. 
This next question --I just --we have to ask it. 
Sure. 3 
4 
5 
6 A 
Q 
A 
Q So we've seen reporting and we've heard from various witnesses that 
7 January 6th was not violent. 
8 
9 
10 
11 A 
Q Right. 
What is your response to that? 
A You know, I mean, I don't know if I tripped. 
know, they smashed my head on the way to the gift shop? Like what happened? 
What? You know, You 
12 but --no, I mean, I can --it's --it's a rhetoric that we're seeing now --not to, you know, 
13 say that the two events are any way comparable, but it's something that we're seeing 
14 now with the Ukraine and Russia. It's the same --it's the same kind of propaganda. 57 
15 To me, it's just, you know, if you --if you didn't do anything wrong, you don't have 
16 anything to deny, and so it's just --it's a denial of --it's a shame. You know, it's a denial 
17 of what I've gone through for the last year and four months, what my personal life is 
18 going through, what I've seen the family members of officers, what I've seen the family 
19 members of Brian Sicknick. It's --you know, it's --it's a --it's an insult, but at the same 
20 time, you know, I think --I think it's just they're scared. They're scared. Somebody 
21 who's scared of their actions are the ones who are denying it, so --
22 Q And I think --famous last words and every attorney's last question, but how 
23 do you approach, I guess, let's say you were back on the line --and hopefully, you get 
24 clearance to go back soon. I know you received clearance, but you're able to go back to 
25 the line soon.  1 
2 A 
Q Sure, sure. 
How do you think you're going to prepare when you go back compared to 
3 how you prepared for pre January 6th? Like what's going to be different if anything? 
4 A You know, I --I would like to say that my trust level has not been affected, 
5 but, you know, my trust of people is definitely affected. I see that. We --we used to 58 
6 be a police department that welcomed wholeheartedly 1st Amendment demonstrations, 
7 and now every time one comes up, it's always in the back of your mind --is somebody 
8 going to try something? Is somebody going to --you know, it's made for some sadder 
9 but wiser officers, which you want --you want officers to be able to --to trust Americans 
10 to come up here and let their voice being heard without that manner of distrust, but 
11 it's --it's an impossible ask at this --at this time. 
12 But the way that I'm going to approach it, is just that, you know, I mean, 
13 300 --300 protests that I worked --you know, possibly more --only one of them was 
14 violent. So, you know, I'll be cautious, but at the same time, I know that the majority of 
15 Americans are just here to make their voice heard, and I'm going to keep allowing them 
16 to do that with the same grace that I allowed it before, just maybe a little bit less trust. 
17 Well, Officer Edwards --first, is there any follow-up questions 
18 from anybody on the line right now. 
19 Not from me. Again, Officer Edwards, thank you for your service 
20 there. 
21 Officer Edwards. Thank you. 
22 Ms. Walters, you have anything that you want to say on the 
23 record? 
24 
25 Ms. Walters. No, thank you. 
Officer Edwards, as -and has just said, I  59 
1 just want to echo, and say thank you sincerely for taking the time to meet us informally 
2 before and coming back and meeting with us again. Thank you for your service to this 
3 country and to the Capitol complex and defending it. Thank you for everything you did 
4 on January 6th, and I hope that your healing continues on the up and up, that you're able 
5 to return back to the line. I definitely can appreciate the sentiment of wearing a 
6 uniform, feeling a part of a team, serving your country, and I can tell by talking to you 
7 already that you'll be back there soon enough. 
8 Officer Edwards. Thank you. 
9 And I just really, really appreciate you taking the time with us 
10 today. 
11 Officer Edwards. Yeah, well, I appreciate you having me. 
12 With that, we'll go off the record at 12:19 p.m., Eastern time. 
13 Thank you. 
14 [Whereupon, at 12:19 p.m., the interview was concluded.]  1 
2 
3 Certificate of Deponent/Interviewee 
4 I have read the foregoing __ pages, which contain the correct transcript of the 
5 answers made by me to the questions therein recorded. 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 Witness Name 
Date 60 