Recording: Well, the virus has now killed 
more than a hundred people in China, and new cases have been confirmed around the 
world. 
So, you don't want to frighten the American public. 
France and South Korea have also got evacuation plans. 
But you need to prepare for and assume-
Strongly warning Americans to avoid all non-essential travel to China . 
... that this is gonna be a real serious problem. 
France, Australia, Canada and the US, Singapore, Cambodia, Vietnam. The list goes on. 
Health officials are investigating more than a hundred possible cases in the US. 
Germany, [00:00:30] a man has, uh, contracted the virus. 
The epidemic is a demon, and we cannot let this demon hide. 
Japan, where a bus driver, uh, contracted the virus-
Coronavirus has killed more than 100 people there and infected more than 4500. 
We have to prepare for the worst always, because if you don't and the worst happens-
Speaker 2: War Room: Pandemic. Here's your 
host, Steven K. Bannon. 
Chris Christie: Well, it's obviously not the way 
our democracy [00:01:00] works, and I'm quite frankly proud of the Georgia Secretary of 
State and his team that was on the phone that dealt with that entire call, as it seemed 
to me unemotionally, directly and under the law. And that's what we all have to do. Uh, 
listen, you know, Jake, I supported the president both in '16 and in '20, help him 
prepare for his debates both times, um, and voted for him both times. But the election 
is over. Um, Joe Biden has been elected President of the United States. He'll be sworn 
in on January 20th, he will be confirmed this Wednesday. 
And-[00:01:30] and what I hope, um, members of the House and the Senate focus on is 
the future in terms of how we run elections. I don't think anybody, Jake, liked the way 
election night ran this time, um, you know, waiting so long for results, there being 
kind of a disorderly type of process because we were doing new things based upon COVID. 
I think what the Congress should be doing is be forward-looking and say, "Okay, how can 
we help the states make our election process for 2022 more orderly, more accessible, 
[00:02:00] um, and fair to everybody?" And that's what we should be focused on. Looking 
straight ahead and not looking in the rear-view mirror. 
Speaker 4: 
then you go to Jim Mattis and Mark Esper and others. 
conclusion: that we are in danger, that we have a-a 
above trying to use the military in order to achieve And then you have Bob Gates and 
But all of us came to the same 
commander-in-chief who is not 
a political objective. 
Steven K. Banno ... : But we're in a fight right now. 
We don't have time or energy to get diverted. Combination, [00:02:30] was in the buried 
lead in the New York Times, combination of the deplorables with real information, the 
diaspora of China, the law of Beijing, old hundred names of real information. Guess 
what it's gonna do? It's gonna take down the Chinese Communist Party. It's gonna break 
the back of the business model of the reset. 
Everybody, "Oh, why aren't you talking about Matt Gates? Why aren't you talking about 
this and that and that?" Grow up. Hold the line. Holding the line is not gossiping. 
"Did [00:03:00] you hear what happened in-d-i-in third period today? Did you hear 
what they said? Did you hear what Sally said about you? She passed a note." Grow up. 
We're in a war right now. 
Donald Trump: There's nothing the radical 
Democrats will not do to get power that they so desperately crave, even the outright  stealing of elections like they're trying to do with us. We're not gonna let it happen. 
Over the past ... And I hope Mike [00:03:30] Pence comes through for us, I have to tell 
you. 
Multiple people: Yeah! 
Donald Trump: I hope that our great vice-
president, our great vice-president comes through for us. He's a great guy. 
Multiple people: ... Trump! Fight for Trump! 
Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump! 
Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump! 
Fight for Trump! 
Speaker X: [inaudible 00:03:59] 
Multiple people: Fight for Trump! Fight for 
Trump! Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump! Fight for 
Trump! Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump! 
Speaker X: [inaudible 00:04:12] 
Steven K. Banno ... : [00:04:00] Live from the 
nation's capital, it's the fifth of January, the Year of our Lord 2021. You're in the 
War Room. A packed show today on the eve of one of the most important days in American 
history, and that will be tomorrow. Mitch McConnell calls it the most important vote 
that senators who sat as jurors and voted in only the [00:04:30] third impeachment 
trial in the history of this republic, he's told them, "It's the most important vote 
you will ever have in your entire career." 
Okay. Today we're ... It's packed, we're gonna try to fit everything in. We've got 
Richard Baris, the pollster, about Georgia. We've got Louie Gohmert on his, uh, not 
just his lawsuit, but also his plan. Uh, we've got Rabbi Spero, uh, we've got Peter 
Navarro, uh, Sean Parnell up in Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania is exploding. The, uh, 
legislature comes back today. They don't need a special session. No excuses, can't ... 
Cutler can't hide, Corman can't hide. No more hiding. [00:05:00] No more hiding. 
Maggie, uh, VandenBerghe will be on later to talk to us about what's happening today at 
1:00 in the city, which is gonna be pretty explosive. 
Um, we've got Jack Posobiec, OANN American News. He's in with, uh, s-Raheem Kassam, 
uh, Jack Maxey, um, and, uh, we've got the, uh, president's, uh, lawyer. We're gonna 
start off with America's mayor, uh, and his generation's Elliott Ness, a man who has 
prosecuted some of the toughest cases in the history of this country. He's been a mayor 
through one of the most trying days of America's history back in 9/11, uh, [00:05:30] 
and he's told us that he thinks this is, uh, actually a tougher period in American 
history. 
I want to cut to the chase today, Mayor. Mayor, your theory of the case. 
Rudy Giuliani: [inaudible 00:05:38] 
Steven K. Banno ... : And this is in the next 42, 72 
hour-... 48 hours, 72 hours, is all gonna get laid out, uh, and obviously be debated, 
right, besides the evidence. Um, is ... And Chris Christie right there saying you've got 
no evidence, this is all a sham. And people have got to remember ... Let's talk about 
Chris Christie for a second. I don't think we got the picture up there of the ... on the 
beach. Chris Christie was not with us in '16. Everybody has to [00:06:00] focus on one 
thing: Billy Bush weekend, okay? Billy Bush weekend is when the establishment bail­
bolted on us, all bolted ... Christie bolted on us. All the s-summer soldiers and 
sunshine patriots, okay? 
Uh, and Rudy Giuliani didn't. Rudy Giuliani went out on that Sunday and did a full 
Ginsberg. Full Ginsberg is about going ... Uh, there's- there's Christie. That's 
Christie in all his glory. It's all his glory. By the way, your poll, uh, Raheem, had  35,000 respondents? 
Raheem Kassam: Yeah. 
Steven K. Banno ... : Thi-35,000 respondents, and ... 
about running for president. 35,000 [00:06:30] respondents, and what percentage wanted, 
uh, Chris Christie to run for president? 
Raheem Kassam: Uh, I believe it was w-... ended 
up on 1.2% (laughs) 
Steven K. Banno ... : 1.2% Chris Christie. Okay. Uh, 
the, um ... And by the way, that's before we do an overall beatdown, which we're gonna 
start doing. Um, just a term of art, that's just a term of art. Okay. Um, and he bailed 
on us on Billy Bush weekend, first guy out the door. Right? Uh, but Rudy Giuliani 
didn't, right? Uh, Boris Epshteyn didn't, right? Mark Meadows didn't, and Mark Meadows' 
wife down in North Carolina, Mark Meadows didn't. Mark Meadows stood tall. Pat 
Cipollone stood tall. [00:07:00] Names of guys I'm throwing around all through this, 
hey, they were there in '16 at the inflection point. It could have been all over. And 
Rudy Giuliani was our leader right? The same posse you see today is the same posse 
then. We were 14 point ... 12 or 14 points down by Sunday afternoon. Didn't matter. 
That's not what the election is about. 
And that's the ... Right now this is about closing on the biggest landslide in American 
political history, and we have the receipts. Mayor, your theory of the case [00:07:30] 
that will be presented over the next couple of days is what? Lay it out to people. 
Rudy Giuliani: I think it's best described as 
two cases that come together. Uh, case number one, the illegal activities in each of 
the six to eight states that are gonna be challenged, meaning they conducted an illegal 
election. The laws of a p-presidential election are set by the state legislature. 
Clearest thing in the world; it's in the Constitution. The Constitution says state 
legislature regulates the manner in which [00:08:00] the electors are selected. The 
states, Pennsylvania, Georgia, being two of the most egregious, Wisconsin, violated 
those laws in significant ways. For example, they decided in Pennsylvania you didn't 
have to check signatures for Pennsylvania's, uh, Democratic areas, (laughs) although 
they checked signatures in the Republican areas. In, uh, in Georgia, they decided to do 
the same thing. They went up ... They trained their workers not to check signatures. 
[00:08:30] Violates the law. If you aren't gonna change signatures, you've got to get 
the state legislature to change the law. They can't change it. 
Uh, they decided to let in people's pure mail-in ballots that were defective. So, if I 
had a mail-in ballot, I'm a Democratic worker, I can go and have you fix the ballot 
against the law. Uh, they allowed young- younger people, underage people, to vote. They 
allowed you to vote without checking your registration. All of these things. These are 
all illegalities [00:09:00] under state law. So, you argue both to the Congress and to 
the court it's an illegal election. The-the-the-the thrust of argument to the 
Congress, to the electoral college, is those votes should be disqualified. Before you 
get to did Biden get them or the ... Trump get them, those electors are disqualified, on 
the basis that they participated in an illegal election. And the words they use in the 
Constitution and the law is they were not regularly [00:09:30] selected. They were 
irregularly selected, meaning they were selected illegally. 
So, that's one v-very big part of the case that Professor Eastman is probably 
America's biggest expert on. He's been preparing this for four months. So, we're ready 
for that argument, which I predict will take place before the Supreme Court sometime in 
the next t-probably seven days. There's more ... That's one of the things that has to 
be confirmed. 
Second one is, in addition to that, [00:10:00] they carried out horrendous, massive 
acts of fraud, voter fraud, theft, uh, substitute ballots, made-up ballots. Best 
example, Pennsylvania. They had to make up a 800,000 lead, which is statistically 
impossible. They did it by pushing all the Republicans out, nobody watching, and they 
counted 680-s-si-684,777 ballots, no [00:10:30] one ob-... They cou-counted them in 
secret, no one observing. Every one of those ballots illegal as a result of, as a 
result of their illegal activity.  Uh, they allowed dead people to vote, they allowed inmates to vote, they allowed, um, 
underage people to vote. Now, the underage ... When you say "underage people," you 
should understand it sounds a little strange, like, 16 ... I'm sorry, 65,000 underage 
people voted in Georgia, enough to reverse the election [00:11:00] and put it to Trump, 
by the way. Those people didn't vote. Those kids didn't go vote. 
Uh, Steve, those are the hallmarks of a phony vote. They want to vote a phony person, a 
nonexistent person. When a person votes, they create a registration. They're doing it 
so fast they sometimes pick somebody who's 16. That's what happened. Of those 65,000 
votes, 45,000, if you go investigate it'll be totally fictitious people. 
Steven K. Banno ... : 
Rudy Giuliani: 
00:11:31] ballots-Okay. 
In-in Pennsylvania, [inaudible 
Steven K. Banno ... : Ha-[00:11:30] hang on, I want 
to stop ... hang-hang on, ha-hang-hang-hang on, I want to stop right there. The t­
the 200,000 thing we've got in Pennsylvania we're gonna get to in a second, but I want 
to stay right here. 
Rudy Giuliani: 
Steven K. Banno ... : 
cold open saying there was no fraud-
Rudy Giuliani: 
Steven K. Banno ... : 
Rudy Giuliani: 
Steven K. Banno ... : 
singing the t-
Rudy Giuliani: Mm-hmm. 
I've got Chris Christie in the 
No . 
... right? 
I don't know where he has been. 
A-and-and I want ... He's-he's 
I don't know where he has been. 
Steven K. Banno ... : He's singing this, he's ... Uh, 
that's what I'm gonna get to, hang on. He's singing this ... It's "Raffensberger," is 
it? I'm finally gonna pronounce this right. 
Rudy Giuliani: Raffensperger. 
Steven K. Banno ... : Raffensperger, thank you guys, I 
want to pronounce ... okay. In the New York Times ... I've got to go back to this, 'cause 
this is a serious tell. [00:12:00] They had the whole conversation with the president. 
They have the-the front-page article, it looks like the end of the Vietnam War, banner 
headline. 
Rudy Giuliani: (laughs) 
Steven K. Banno ... : But not one quote from Trump 
talks about when Trump was talking about the numbers. That's when we did it yesterday. 
We di-we cut it two ways yesterday. We cut it first in the morning-
Rudy Giuliani: I remember. 
Steven K. Banno ... : ... with Mi-, you know, Trump 
saying a number, Mika melting down. Then afterwards with, uh, Sperling. So, uh, m-uh, 
Rudy, uh, Mayor, I want to stick on the 65,000. How can, how can Raffensperger and  Christie, and-and quite frankly, our old colleagues over at Breitbart, [00:12:30] Alex 
Marlow, I think, was arguing this morning there's no vo-voter fraud, how can people a­
··· And McCarthy and some of these guys haven't stepped up, uh, Mike Lee, you know, 1-
Lindsey Graham is not there ... how ... Uh, Tom Cotton's bailed on us. How can they sit 
there, right? You say there's 65,000 underage people. Well, clearly the names were 
taken just to use the vote. 
Ho-ho-w-what evidence do you put for them on the dead people, which they say is two, 
you say it's 800, but you've got 10,000 that you're proving, but you've got a hard 800? 
They have no [00:13:00] underage people, you have 65,000. This is the heart of them­
massive voter fraud. What do you have, a-and you can show, that actually backs that 
up, that refutes they're sitting there going, "There's been no fraud at all"? What do 
you have on both dead people and-and un-the 65,000 underage? 
Rudy Giuliani: 
to the list of 
to die in 2020 
1st, 2020. She The easiest thing to do is to go 
dead people (laughs) in Atlanta, in that area, in 2020. The first person 
in Atlanta [00:13:30] was a woman named Betty Cook. She died on January 
voted on October 27th, 2020. Betty Cook. We've checked. Betty Cook is in 
a grave, and somehow came out of the grave and voted, along with 814 other people in 
the year 2020. We have gone, we have all their names. All their names a-are listed. 
We've checked. If not all of them [inaudible 00:13:59]-
Steven K. Banno ... : Mayor, we've got ... [00:14:00] 
Mayor, we're go-Mayor, we're gonna j-we're gonna jump to commercial break. Just 
please hang on. But this is for everybody to understand. What Mayor Giuliani, he's got 
two parts. One, these- these were illegal elections, and they're gonna prove these were 
illegal elections, like in Pennsylvania and these other places. That's number one. The 
second part of the case is there are massive voter fraud, and he's got the receipts. 
He's gonna show them- numbers, and they're gonna see the math tomorrow. This is either 
one thing or the other, there's no gray area here. It's either one or the other. And 
this [00:14:30] is why the people that support the president support the president, 
because it's not about Trump. It's about this republic, it's about the Constitution, 
it's about the country. You're either in or you're out. 
We're gonna return with Mayor Rudy Giuliani in a moment. 
Speaker 2: War Room: Pandemic, with Steven 
K. Bannon. 
Recording: The epidemic is a demon, and we 
cannot let this demon hide. 
Speaker 2: War Room: Pandemic. Here's your 
host, Steven K. Bannon. 
Steven K. Banno ... : [00:15:00] Hi, welcome back to 
the War Room. This is the paper of record for our republic. It is the New York Times. 
They make such a big deal about taking the conversation with Raffensperger, right, and 
making a big deal about it. Not one number is on this page. Why is that? They don't do 
anything that they don't think through. Look, you may not like them, but they're very 
smart and they're very cunning. Why is this all, there's not one number? And here's 
why. They can't refute the receipts. 
This theory of the case from the president's lawyer ... And we're gonna have Louie 
Gohmert o-on later, [00:15:30] we're gonna have Peter Navarro on later, we're gonna 
have Sean Parnell on later, we're gonna get into the details of this. Baris about 
polling. Two parts of the case. One, because the state legislatures by the Constitution 
are the guys that make the rules. You can't change the rules. These are illegal 
elections, right? That's the big issue we've got up in Pennsylvania. That's where 
Parnell is coming on. 
The second part of the case is that there's massive, underlying massive voter, ballot 
and election fraud. Massive voter, ballot [00:16:00] and election fraud. Ladies and 
gentlemen, we don't need to go find a gun battle in Frankfurt. We don't need to find a 
server [inaudible 00:16:06], and I know that upsets some of you. Live with it, okay? 
We're about winning. We need focus, not fantasy. Focus, not fantasy, okay? I want to  return now to Rudy Giuliani. I want ... Uh, by the way, the War Room team is gonna get 
the list of 800. Rudy, we don't need ... We're gonna put it up, and you're gonna see it, 
okay? 
Number two, 65,000 people under the age of I think 17 and a half is the cutoff, 
[00:16:30] and obviously that was ... They just needed names. But how di-how did you go 
back and prove that? How do you have the receipts of that, and Raffensperger and 
Sperling don't have the receipts for that? And Chris Christie says, "Hey, they're the 
guys. They say it's non-it's, uh, nonsense." How-how ... And by the way, anytime in 
the call that Raffensperger brought up a number, he was wrong. He was wrong. He didn't 
know the numbers. Listen to the audio, listen to .... Go to the National Pulse, listen 
to the audio. Trump's like a chairman CEO closing a complicated [00:17:00] deal where 
he knows every set of math, bang, bang, bang, bang, bang, and Raffensperger is some 
bozo commercial banker, has no idea what he, "I-I, you know, I don't know. You know, 
it's two dead." "No, it's 800 ... It's actually 10,000. I've got 800 names right here. 
So, suck on that." 
Mayor Giuliani: 65,000 underage. How do you prove that? 
Rudy Giuliani: You prove that ... uh, r-uh, uh, 
pretty darn simple. You look at the record. The record was clear as to their, as to 
their date-date of birth. They got those, [00:17:30] they got those from drivers' 
records. They're mostly young people who have, uh, like, those junior licenses and 
licenses or permits to drive. Some states, you go down as low as 15 years old for that. 
So, they use those lists, put them into the voter registration list, and attach the 
vote to them. So, some crooked guy made out the ballot, but they have to attach a name 
to it. Otherwise you have what happened in Pennsylvania, you have 205,000 [00:18:00] 
votes more than voters. 
And they figured these young people would never show up to vote. They didn't think 
anybody would ever check. I don't think they've ever checked an Atlanta election 
before. They've cheated for 50 years. So, they end up with 65,000 underage people 
voting, of which, right, we haven't finished the whole list, but I-I wouldn't be 
surprised if 40,000 of them are totally made up and the rest are young people who 
actually did vote, and possibly made a mistake. 
These are the ... what we call the indicia of fraud. People [00:18:30] that live with no 
address. Even a homeless person can give you, like, a street, or put a street down. "I 
live on this street," or, "I live on that street." But homeless people have ... They­
they actually want to give you a place they feel some connection to. I know this from 
New York. A totally phony address is, "Where do you live?" (laughs) "No address." No 
address, none. They can't even make one up, 'cause they're doing ballots [inaudible 
00:18:58]-
Steven K. Banno ... : Okay, we're- we're ... Hang-
hang ... We're- w-... Ha-[00:19:00] hang on, hang on, Mayor. So, we're gonna go back 
and [inaudible 00:19:02]-
Rudy Giuliani: 
they're complete-
Steven K. Banno ... : 
Rudy Giuliani: 
00:19:05] are liars. 
Steven K. Banno ... : 
Rudy Giuliani: These guys are liars. I mean, 
Okay, fine. 
Raffensperger and [inaudible 
[inaudible 00:19:06] 
The two fat guys are liars. 
Steven K. Banno ... : Okay. Mayor, you-you've been ... 
You're one of the greatest prosecutors in the history of this country. For the younger 
audience that doesn't know, he put away ... Did you see The Sopranos? Rudy Giuliani put 
all the f-... The five families they're all worried about that, you know, because of 
the 1-guys in New Jersey, the five families, Rudy broke them all. First time the mafia  was broken. He broke the same cartel on Wall Street shortly thereafter. The greatest 
prosecutor maybe [00:19:30] in the history of the country. Rudy, so you're ... This is 
about prosecuting the case. I want to go back to the impeachment. You notice on the 
November 3rd election, virtually none of the $6 billion spent in-in-in, uh, 
advertising really brought up the impeachment. It was just not an issue. Why? Rudy 
Giuliani was his lawyer. He took all the grief and al the flak, but at the end of the 
day it was Rudy was ca-... Rudy was the quarterback. And he took all this grief. 
There were no damage to the president, no damage to the president, because Rudy 
[00:20:00] Giuliani had a steady hand on it, said, "Hey, stay steady, stay steady. 
We're over the target. Don't panic. Don't panic, don't panic," like on Billy Bush 
weekend and during the impeachment. This is the third time. Rudy's got it. He's mocked 
and ridiculed, he's on Saturday Night Live, all the ... Hey, you know what? We won 
through Billy Bush weekend, and we won on the impeachment, and you've got the sa-... 
You've got Rudy. He's got his hand on the thing. 
Rudy, here's the question: There you had time to brief Jim Jordan, right, the managers? 
You had the time to brief the Ted Cruzes and these brilliant guys we've had [00:20:30] 
in the Senate, these prosecutors. Have you had the time ... You and Boris and Jenna and 
the rest of the team have lived and breathed this, even before the election, right, on 
the 1-the elections part. But the massive fraud, you've had teams, you've had 
analysis, you've got numbers. I've got another great report your team did last night in 
the middle of the night, critical issues with, uh, t-uh, battleground states s-filled 
with data. Peter Navarro on [Leia's 00:20:54] show filled with data. Have you had the 
time top-to pa-pass this over to Mo Brooks, Jim [00:21:00] Jordan and those guys in 
the House and the Senate that are gonna have to prosecute the case starting tomorrow? 
Rudy Giuliani: Well, I should first e-
emphasize the fact you never have enough time. I mean, I've tried a hundred cases and I 
helped people with almost as many, and I never was prepared (laughs), even though I 
was. There's always one more thing you want to do. I would say the House is very well­
prepared. They've been living this case in a way from the time it started, and it may 
be the connection the House has to the president, having defended him during the 
[00:21:30] impeachment. They've almost not stopped, and, uh, e-and-and Jim is now the 
leader. Mark Meadows and Jim were the leaders before, but Mark is in the White House 
now. But I find their organizational system, uh, I really admired it during the 
impeachment, and I think it'll be the same here. 
These facts are a little newer. They're getting them, they're learning them. Obviously 
they don't know them like our legal team who have been living with them for, you know, 
for three months. But they're g-they're g-they're gonna, they're gonna be there, and 
they're gonna do a good job. And we're almost in a situation [00:22:00] where we have 
more facts than we need, so if they leave a few out I'm not gonna (laughs) go crazy. 
The Senate came to it a little later. Uh, we're in the process now of preparing them. I 
would like to have had more time, but you've got some tremendous talent in the, in the 
Senate. I mean, Ted Cruz is one of the best appellate lawyers in the world, um, and Mr. 
Hawley, who's very, very young, uh, was considered to be a really, really fine 
prosecutor. I'd like to get Lindsey in the battle, [00:22:30] because, um, whatever 
else we think about Lindsey, and he's a friend of mine, he's one hell of a lawyer. And 
not all of them are. Yeah, not all of them are. The, uh, uh, you-you ... We know, um, 
the people who make the long speeches and they don't really ask the question, and ... 
Yeah, the ... We don't have time for that. Louie Gohmert in his own way, which is 
colorful, and-and he's, like, the country lawyer that'll make you laugh, and then you 
vote convict because he wants you to. 
So, I-I like the talent we have. I'd like to have more time to prepare. [00:23:00] Uh, 
you almost never have it. But-but, uh, Steve, we have so many facts I guess is what 
I'm saying, is we can blow a few and, I mean, if-if you ask me, "Was there voter fraud 
in Philadelphia, in Pennsylvania?" Philadelphia, just even Philadelphia, we'd be on for 
the rest of the show, if I told you all of it. 
Steven K. Banno ... : Yeah. 
Rudy Giuliani: I mean, this is massive. 
Steven K. Banno ... : Okay. I-I know you've got to,  you-you ... um, and-
Rudy Giuliani: That's the, tha-... uh, you 
know, maybe more the ... more important than anything else, we've got to get them to see 
it's massive. This is not a little movie. 
Steven K. Banno ... : This, okay. I-I-I-I-
Rudy Giuliani: This is a gigantic movie. 
Steven K. Banno ... : I-[00:23:30] I want to go back. 
This is the point I want to make. In the theory of the case a€" It's in two parts, 
ladies and gentlemen, we've asked this a€" the theory of the case, it's illegal 
elections across the board, and he's gonna walk through state by state. Eastman's gonna 
walk through the constitutionality of it. The second part, it is massive. Take you 
number two pencil out and underline that: massive voter fraud, massive ballot fraud, 
massive election fraud. And they've got the receipts, and they're gonna show that, for 
two hours per state or however this works out. 
We've got about [00:24:00] two minutes, Mayor. Your closing argument of what our 
audience ... We always want to be ahead of the curve, what should people be looking for 
over the next couple of days? What are the tells? We already see a tell. They don't 
want to talk about any math. They never want to talk about any math. But what are other 
tells? What-what are other things our audience should be looking for? 
Rudy Giuliani: 
because actually there's a 
is. I think you and I, uh, 
numbers don't lie when you 
Steven K. Banno ... : Well, I mean, they don't, 
debate among us as to what the strongest part of the case 
have agreed in a way the numbers are, 'cause [00:24:30] the 
can prove the-
Yeah. 
Rudy Giuliani: ... 817, the 817 people who are 
dead, and we have their date of death and the date they voted six months later, that's 
not a lie. We ... You-you can go to the cemetery and see the body, uh, see-see the, 
see the grave. You can go talk to the family. We've talked to some of the families. 
The-the 2,500 felons, half of whom are in prison when the ballots were brought to 
them. That's not a lie. That's [00:25:00] the truth. The ... And how about the film of 
the theft in Fulton County where if you spent a little time, you could count the number 
of ballots that were stolen. There were no observers. Automatically under the law of 
Georgia, those are 30,000 illegal votes that must be taken out of that county that 
Biden won 8 to 2, and it's not just 30,000. Somehow, like the loaves and the fishes, 
they multiplied into 130,000. 
Steven K. Banno ... : 
[inaudible 00:25:31] 
Rudy Giuliani: 
printout showing that. The ... We have it showing that. [00:25:30] laughs) getting ma-
And we have the computer 
Steven K. Banno ... : Ma-Mayor, yeah, Mayor, hang on, 
hang on. Okay. 
Rudy Giuliani: They cheated him out of 110 
votes in that one, in that one [inaudible 00:25:40]-
Steven K. Banno ... : Okay. 
Rudy Giuliani: uh, nine-hour film. 
Steven K. Banno ... : All day long we're gonna do this  with National Pulse. W-last thing. Uh, tonight you're gonna break another, uh, Common 
Sense with Rudy that everybody's got to see. What time can people get your podcast? 
Rudy Giuliani: They can get it at 6:00, and 
we're gonna talk about the options that they may see on-on Wednesday. In other words, 
there [00:26:00] are about four scenarios of what can happen on Wednesday-
Steven K. Banno ... : Yeah, you've got to watch this. 
Yeah. 
Rudy Giuliani: . .. and I kind of get them ready 
for it. Like, it's almost like-
Steven K. Banno ... : Yeah. 
Rudy Giuliani: I almost feel like, uh, 
Madden, uh, describing a football game coming up. (laughs) 
Steven K. Banno ... : Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, that's 
good. You've called the play, you're gonna run the play. Mayor Giuliani, uh, we're 
gonna put your Twitter account up, we're gonna put it ... God bless you, you've got 
prayers. Uh, the-the nation, the Trump movement, and people who want to defend this 
republic, have your back. Go with God. You've done it before on Billy Bush weekend in 
'16, and then on the impeachment. [00:26:30] Third time's a charm, sir. 
Speaker 2: 
K. Bannon. 
Recording: 
cannot let this demon hide. 
Speaker 2: 
host, Steven K. Bannon. 
Steven K. Banno ... : 
Jack Maxey. 
Jack Maxey: 
Roll Call reporting just a few-
Steven K. Banno ... : 
not what I said. 
Jack Maxey: 
Charles Grassley-War Room: Pandemic with Steven 
The epidemic is a demon, and we 
War Room: Pandemic. Here's your 
Okay, we've got breaking news, 
Some conflicting breaking news. 
Well, hold ... Stop, stop. That's 
Breaking news. Iowa Senator 
Steven K. Banno ... : Stop, stop. When we [00:27:00] 
call the play, we run the play. Okay? When we call the play, we run the play. Jack 
Maxey's got breaking news here in the War Room. What would that breaking news be, Jack? 
Jack Maxey: Iowa Senator Charles E. 
Grassley, the Senate president pro tempore, says he and not and Vice-President Mike 
Pence will preside over certification of electoral college votes, since we, quote, 
"Don't expect him to be there." Grassley said he will listen to the debate, and that, 
quote, "It would be really wrong for me to say I have my mind made up." This is 25 
[00:27:30] minutes ago. 
Steven K. Banno ... : 
Let's mark the time. That is at what time? That is at, 
10:00 and a-Okay, okay. Stop. That is 20 ... 
uh, 10 ... around 10:00? Ro-sh- Jack Maxey: 10:08, say. 
Steven K. Banno ... : 10:08. That's reported by 
Reuters. I want to ta-
Jack Maxey: Roll Call. 
Steven K. Banno ... : Roll Call, which is one of the 
best sources in town up there, the hill, and Roll Call magazine. I want to take a deep 
breath. At 10:08 I want to reread that, Jack Maxey. What did they say? 
Jack Maxey: Iowa Senator Charles E. 
Grassley, the Senate president pro tempore, says he and not Vice-President Mike Pence 
will preside over the certification of electoral college [00:28:00] votes, since we, 
quote, "Don't expect him to be there." Grassley said he will listen to the debate, and 
that it, quote, "Would be really wrong for me to say I have made my mind up." 
Steven K. Banno ... : Okay. Here's the buried lead. 
The buried lead is at 10:08. The buried lead is, "We don't expect him to be there." We 
don't expect him to be there. And Charles Grassley, and-and, you know, they ... that 
office, as-as-as dignified as-as Senator Grassley [00:28:30] is, is not telling Roll 
Call like that unless they talked about it beforehand. Now, that's not the complete 
story, right? Although Jack Maxey wanted to give the punchline-
Jack Maxey: (laughs) 
Steven K. Banno ... : ... we held him back (laughs), 
okay? This is ... But this is the theater of drama, right? Okay. Now, Raheem Kassam, 
that's not actually the entire story, is it, sir? 
Raheem Kassam: That's correct. At 10:19 a.m., 
Nicholas-
Steven K. Banno ... : That would be, that would be 11 
minutes later. 
Raheem Kassam: That's correct. Nicholas Fandos, 
who is the congressional correspondent for the New York Times, tweets, "A Grassley 
spokesman clarifies that the [00:29:00] senator does not, quote, 'Have any indication 
Pence won't be present," end quote. Grassley, he said, was trying to explain that as 
president pro tempore of the Senate, he would fill the chair if Pence does not show or 
steps out for a break. 
Steven K. Banno ... : Buried lead. If Pence does not 
show or steps off the floor. Now, hmm. Hmm. How did that get circulated? Okay? Just­
just listen. [00:29:30] All hell is going to break loose tomorrow. Just understand 
this. All hell is going to break loose tomorrow. It's gonna be moving, it's gonna be 
quick, you've got to get into Raheem's Twitter feed, you've got to get into Posobiec's 
Twitter feed. There's gonna be many moving pieces. Remember, just ... It's the fog of 
war. Just keep-keep-keep-keep focused on what's important. 
Here's what's important: Rudy Giuliani, the President's lawyer, just laid out the 
theory of the case. There's two parts. One, illegal elections. You heard Sean-Sean 
Parnell last night. Remember, Jack, about Pennsylvania? [00:30:00] Sean Parnell is 
coming back to talk about Pennsylvania again. Illegal elections and how are they 
certified, the process. The con-... That's the constitutional part. 
The other is the receipts, the massive voter, ballot and election fraud. And you've 
already seen, right, this whole ... And-and trust me, when they're, when they're at the 
hill at n-10:08 with something that well-formed, and then 1-11 minutes later they're 
walking it back to the New York Times, right, that shows you the kind of conflict 
behind the scenes. [00:30:30] So, there's a lot of moving pieces. Okay, one of the- Raheem Kassam: 
Steven K. Banno ... : 
Raheem Kassam: 
Steven K. Banno ... : 
in. A-a-
Yeah, go ahead. 
Can I get-
Yeah, yeah, I want you to jump 
Raheem Kassam: There's sev-there's several 
buried leads in here that should set massive alarm bells ringing. And by the way, I 
just want to bring back attention-
Steven K. Banno ... : By the way, my alarm bell, when 
Jack t-read me the first one-
Raheem Kassam: [inaudible 00:30:42] yeah. 
Steven K. Banno ... : ... my alarm bell was already 
off. It was [inaudible 00:30:43] (laughs). 
Raheem Kassam: But I just want to remind people 
who's been sitting here saying, "Light Pence up," for the last couple of weeks, right? 
That would be Raheem Kassam. And here's the biggest buried lead. 
Steven K. Banno ... : I think the President of the 
United States, I think the President of the United States took your advice last night, 
wrote a line in there. 
Raheem Kassam: Yeah, that's right. And-and 
yours, "Hold the line, hold the line." 
Steven K. Banno ... : Hold the-
Raheem Kassam: Here's [00:31:00] the biggest 
buried lead. Here's how you know what that Roll Call thing-
Steven K. Banno ... : Mm-hmm. 
Raheem Kassam: ... what they said-
Steven K. Banno ... : Mm-hmm. 
Raheem Kassam: ... was actually from the mouth 
of Chuck Grassley. And now his spokesmen are trying to clean it up, because they gave 
away what they plan to do. Here's how you know. Only an 87-year-old senator still goes 
and briefs Roll Call. 
Steven K. Banno ... : 
Is, uh ... thinks they're relevant, 
Raheem Kassam: 
Steven K. Banno ... : 
'Cause they're not exactly-
Raheem Kassam: Yeah, exact ... They're relev-... 
is what you're saying. 
Yes. 
Yes, exactly. A guy that's ... 
You don't pick up the phone- Steven K. Banno ... : They ki-they ... It's not 
Politico, it's not-
Raheem Kassam: It's Axios-
Steven K. Banno ... : You're right, right. It's not 
Axios, right. 
Raheem Kassam: [00:31:30] or the s-the 
Punch Bowl. 
Steven K. Banno ... : He doesn't, he doesn't know who 
Jonathan Swan is, right? 
Raheem Kassam: Right. 
Jack Maxey: And Roll pa-Call put it in 
quotations. They have not removed it. 
Steven K. Banno ... : Yes, yes. That-that-that means 
a quote. So, stay tuned, ladies and gentlemen. 
Raheem Kassam: But Roll Call was big when Chuck 
Grassley was big. 
Steven K. Banno ... : (laughs) Exactly. 
Raheem Kassam: 
Steven K. Banno ... : 
may be big tomorrow-
Cameron: 
Steven K. Banno ... : 
their ... Yeah. 
Cameron: 
added the clarification to theirs. So-
Steven K. Banno ... : 
Cameron: 
Call as fast as possible. 
Steven K. Banno ... : 
want to-
Cameron: Right? 
Well, Chuck Grassley thinks he 
They've-
... with-with-with-with 
They've ... Roll Call has now 
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. 
... they must have called Roll 
Yeah, abs-... Okay, I want to, 
10: 34. 
Steven K. Banno ... : ... I want to make sure. By the 
way, Roll Call is not taking ... Uh, something that explosive that's gonna change 
[00:32:00] markets, you want to see what the market ... It's gonna change markets, I 
don't think is, uh, is-is, uh ... They're not taking that quote from a Grundoon. 
Chris Christie: Right. 
Steven K. Banno ... : Okay? That's a senior person.  Okay, I want to go to ... Listen, on this show today we're gonna be jamming a lot in. 
We're gonna call a lot of audibles, right? So, just-just hang with us. But it's all 
gonna be signal, none of it's gonna be noise. I want to go now to Richard Baris, uh, 
the young man who's I think one of the smartest Pulsers out there, was on with our 
election night coverage. Richard, uh, let's go to Georgia. W-uh, what do you think 
[00:32:30] right now? What are you hearing? What's the turnout like? You know, uh, 
we've been quoting you for the last couple days, said you think it's got to be ... Uh, 
1.1 million people have to show up on-on game day today, and it's got to be a 60-40 
split-
Richard Baris: Yeah. 
Steven K. Banno ... : ... for Trump vo-uh, for 
basically for Trump supporters to-to back the two Republicans, uh, uh, or we're gonna 
lose this. I think you're projecting we start on game day at 160 to 175,000 votes down. 
Now, did you p-add in Stacey Abrams, that, you know, shes- always comes in with 
another two or two-two percent up [00:33:00] through her efforts? So is the ... your 
175 a hard number that we've got to top? 
Richard Baris: Yeah, because there are about 
500,000 that are out, Steve, right? So, they're not, uh ... The-they haven't been 
returned yet. Or about 400,000, actually now. So, uh, this, uh, this, I would caution 
everybody, you're probably not gonna get a race call tonight unless one side blows it 
wide open, which I ... you know, looking at the numbers, I just don't see happening. Uh, 
there's- the-... W-we're- we're at the point now where we're looking at almost 
presidential election turnout. There were five million votes, just under, [00:33:30] in 
November. There are three million ... over three million in-person, uh, votes that were 
already cast, or close to, and then, uh, uh, if you count, uh ... or early vote. And 
over two if you count in-person, and about another million for absentee. So, we're 
already almost there. If Republicans can put another 1.1, another Trump-sized election 
day, uh, then they can, they can make it close. They can w-even win it. But, uh, they­
they-they need a big turnout today. 
Steven K. Banno ... : 
do-do-do you need, uh, d-uh, do you need [00:34:00] 
million Republicans today? 
Richard Baris: 
be a lot. 
Steven K. Banno ... : 
and-and-
Richard Baris: 
yeah. Total. Well, hold on. You ... Do you, 
1.1 million total, or 1.1 
Oh, no, total. Total. That would 
Total. And-and-and then split, 
That would be a real heavy lift, 
Steven K. Banno ... : 
the split, and the split 60/40, 
right? I know it. And the splits, and 
is it you need a 60/40 split on 1.1 million turnout, 
Richard Baris: Right. Or they can ... I mean, if 
they get a million they can, they can still do it, if they get a little bit, uh, higher 
margin on election day. Uh, or it could be that they even do better in thee- uh, the 
early. But we're going off of what we saw in November, and from what our polling shows, 
which is pretty [00:34:30] cl-pretty consistent. 
Steven K. Banno ... : Um, okay. I want to go to ... Uh, 
w-what are, what are your sources telling you now w-uh, for the early morning go 
and ... 'Cause Atla-uh, the Georgia vote, particularly the rural vote, is a get-out-in­
the-morning vote, go to work. 
Richard Baris: Yeah.  Steven K. Banno ... : The urban vote is ... A lot of 
it's ... It comes in the afternoon. What are you hearing about turnout this morning? 
Richard Baris: These things are always, uh, 
inc-you know, inconsistent, but ... or unreliable is a better word. But I am hearing 
that in the end it does look like people are getting out, [00:35:00] holding their 
noses and getting out. So, in our polling that's w-... The problem area was the central 
and southern part of the state, the rural especially, and-and then into the coastal 
regions that are Republican, and they were telling us they weren't sure if they were 
going to vote. Already from what we can see and what we're hearing, it does look like 
at least many of them, Steve, are getting out and voting anyway, they are. And that's 
probably n-in no small part the Donald Trump visiting yesterday. If he didn't show up, 
I think it'd have been over. 
Steven K. Banno ... : This is what I want to 
[00:35:30] say. You say "hold their nose." Uh, last night-
Richard Baris: Yeah. 
Steven K. Banno ... : ... correct me if I'm wrong, was 
per-was Perdue ... I didn't see, I didn't see Perdue there. I saw a video. And Kelly 
Loeffler came up and-and gave her, "Oh, I'm gonna contest Georgia." Uh, well, Georgia 
ain't good enough 'cause it doesn't get you below 270, but thanks- thanks for the 
effort, Kelly. Somebody's got to wake her up, right? Why do you say "hold your nose," 
uh, Richard Baris? 
Richard Baris: Yeah, people are mad, Steve. 
Republicans are mad, and independents who voted for Donald Trump are mad. Uh, they 
wanted a-a [00:36:00] fight. They wanted a bigger fight. We've polled this now three 
times. People can not understand why mail-in balloting was treated differently than in­
person vote. It's common sense, even to large percentages of Democrats. They just, 
they ... They're not buying it, and the ame-the number of people who believe that 
Georgia was stolen from Donald Trump is a majority. And it's not just driven by large 
numbers of Republican voters. It's driven by Republicans and independents, and about 
even a quarter of Democrats who said, "Yeah, probably." 
[00:36:30] So, I mean, people wanted a bigger fight-
Steven K. Banno ... : [inaudible 00:36:32] 
Richard Baris: ... than this. This was a no-
brainer, Steve. I don't know what they were doing for weeks and weeks. 
Steven K. Banno ... : Y-you talk about a fight. Has 
any ... In your professional opinion, have any of the aspects that caused the fiasco 
we're still fighting about on November 3rd, have any of the aspects of that changed at 
all on this election that's taking place today? 
Richard Baris: No. No. Despite the headlines, 
there's- there's n-uh, there's n-no dual oversight, and by ... Uh, Fulton [00:37:00] 
County had a court-appointed supervisor. The guy was sleeping in the corner and p-and­
and futzing with his phone. So, this-this idea that there's oversight there, and it's 
not just Fulton, it's everywhere, but, yeah, the idea that there's two-party oversight 
is total nonsense. That's ... It-it-it-it's propaganda. It's garbage. They wouldn't 
know-
Steven K. Banno ... : 
Richard Baris: 
eight feet-
Steven K. Banno ... : I want you-
... uh, you know, s-seven feet, 
Yeah.  Richard Baris: 20 feet away, they wouldn't 
know if the signature matched or not, Steve. They wouldn't have a clue. 
Steven K. Banno ... : Ok-okay, hang on. I want you ... 
If we get breaking news, you guys jump in, okay? 'Cause the Grassley thing has gotten 
people's ... [00:37:30] literally meltdown. I've got, like, 9,000 things here. Okay, uh, 
I want to go back to Richard Baris. Richard, uh, your job, I've got to tell you. People 
all over the world I know and respect were saying, hey, you and Bill McGinley on 
election night were unbelievable. The best coverage of anywhere, 'cause there was no ... 
It was eight hours of, 10 hours of no happy talk, just legal and-and numbers, and 
everything has played out as you guys said. 
I want to go back. I remember at 3:00 in the morning, at 2:00 we'd wrapped up coverage, 
you-you ended with Georgia, and you said ... And your one thing you said, "I think 
we've got Georgia. He's up by X [00:38:00] amount. There's only X amount of the 
percentage of vote left." Just explain to people, because later you said, "Hey, don't 
go to bed. Wisconsin, Michigan, watch this," and you were dead spot-on. What in your 
mind happened in Georgia that night that's still out there? When you-you said, "Hey, I 
think we've got Georgia, Georgia you can lock," right? A-and yet the-the vote kept 
coming in. Explain to people from that night what actually happened, and why it 
translates to what's happening today. 
Richard Baris: Yeah. People should read the 
Navarro report, specifically the numbers and the date and time stamps [00:38:30] that 
we gave them, uh, to put in that report to see what happened in the state of Georgia. 
So, they es-they essentially erased-
Steven K. Banno ... : Uh-huh. 
Richard Baris: ... a nine-point lead with n-no 
more than 14% of the vote out in the state of Georgia overnight. And just, you know, 
like we saw in the Midwest, states that were allowed to continue to dump these absentee 
ballots without reporting firm totals of what they had. Uh, they told everybody they 
were leaving, "Go-go home, uh, we're not counting anymore." They circled the block a 
couple times and, [00:39:00] uh, came back and began to count, and these overwhelming 
margins that didn't match early vote numbers we had seen prior. Steve, the only 
difference in the margins was time. Demographics, uh, they-th-they didn't change. So, 
when we get certain areas, regional areas, demographics, geography, and we can get the 
split in the vote, we know what margin they're breaking at, time should not be a factor 
in how those votes break down. And that is the only difference in what we saw in 
Georgia [00:39:30] and elsewhere. Really, people should go look at that-
Steven K. Banno ... : Okay. Yeah. 
Richard Baris: ... and they'll see what 
happened from midnight on in Georgia. 
Steven K. Banno ... : We're go-we-we-we're gonna 
have Navarro on at the top of the hour. We're go-we're c-... Yes or no question. Was 
it mathematically possible, mathe-... You're a statistician. Was it mathematically 
possible with 14% of the vote out to, uh, recover from a nine-point lead? Yes or no, 
was it mathematically possible? 
Richard Baris: Yeah, le-legitimately, 
legitimately, highly unlikely. Highly, highly. I would say no. Like, i-in-in the 
state of Georgia, we have ne-... we just ... There are too many firsts for me to 
swallow. Way too many. 
Steven K. Banno ... : [00:40:00] R-r-r-Richard, 
just hang ... Uh, well, I just want to bring you back over the commercial break for one 
question. We're gonna ask Richard Baris when we return from a short commercial break 
what's his call for tonight in Georgia. Richard Baris, what's his call. We'll be back 
in a minute.  Speaker 2: War Room: Pandemic with Steven 
K. Bannon. 
Recording: The epidemic is a demon, and we 
cannot let this demon hide. 
Speaker 2: War Room: Pandemic. Here's your 
host, Steven K. Bannon. 
Steven K. Banno ... : Okay. Breaking news [00:40:30] 
means you have permission to break in. What have we got? 
Raheem Kassam: So, Elizabeth-
Steven K. Banno ... : Don't be shy. 
Raheem Kassam: I'm very shy. You know me. 
Steven K. Banno ... : I know (laughs). 
Raheem Kassam: Elizabeth Landers over at Vice 
News says that, uh, Mike Pence's office says the vice-president will still be presiding 
tomorrow. 
Steven K. Banno ... : 
got? Okay, uh, Jack, what have you 
Jack Maxey: Well, I-I tell you what. The 
live streams expects him to be there. Somebody said, "You watch. Pence will betray 
Donald Trump on Zoom." This is the kind of feelings that are there. 
Steven K. Banno ... : Call the play. Call the play, 
run the play. What have you got? 
Cameron: Look, Grassley's office is out 
there [00:41:00] saying ... In all caps they're tweeting this. "Key words, Senate 
debate. W-they're o-only talking about the debate, not total presiding." 
Steven K. Banno ... : 
want to get-
Cameron: He's there for the day, okay. I 
[inaudible 00:41:11] 
Steven K. Banno ... : ... Grassley's office number. I 
want to get it up on the ... Get the guys in Denver, ca-, uh, Cameron. I want to get it 
up on the screen. I want the Donald.win, I want, uh, the hashtag #warandpandemic, and I 
want the, uh, live stream. You've got the ... Uh, we're gonna give you information all 
day, in case you're so moved to maybe drop an email or call on Senator Grassley's 
office and tell him ... [00:41:30] uh, give your unexpurgated opinion. Okay. I want to 
go back to Richard Baris. Richard, you're the best around. You've looked at this. Uh, 
you're from d-you're from down there. What do you think is going to happen tonight? 
What should our audience look for as far as this race, particularly early in the 
evening? Do you think it's gonna get called? What should they look for, and what is 
your ultimate call here? 
Richard Baris: Y-I think one if not both 
probably will not get called tonight, because if the election day turnout is-i-is 
what it needs to be, then we're gonna see the drips and the drips over 24, 48, 
[00:42:00] 72 hours, like we saw in November. Because like I said before, nothing  really changed, Steve. Nothing changed. So, if you give them an inch, they'll take a 
foot, and this was the point I was trying to make f-you know, since the beginning of 
November. It really was Trump today and the rest of them tomorrow, and they did nothing 
about it. So, here we are. 
A-I think it's gonna be close, uh, regardless. Georgia still is, uh, that kind of a 
state. Democrats can't run away with something. So, I think from the polling that we've 
done, it looked like for weeks [00:42:30] that Perdue was stronger, uh, than Kelly. I 
don't think that's the case now. I think Perdue hid. He-he really ... Uh, the-the 
strategy was this ... was a 1-... It was almost like he g-paying somebody to tell him 
how to lose. I-I ... This was-
Steven K. Banno ... : Is it ... Is there-
Richard Baris: very easy. 
Steven K. Banno ... : ... is there any doubt i-... Uh, 
I just want to make sure. Is there any doubt in your mind? We've begged, and John 
Fredericks is gonna be on next. We've begged those guys for weeks and weeks and weeks 
just to commit. Commit to Trump, commit to-
Richard Baris: Yeah. 
Steven K. Banno ... : ... a special session, commit to 
a special prosecutor, commit to say, "On the 6th I'm gonna no-I'm gonna stand up 
[00:43:00] across the board." If you commit, you're gonna win. If you don't commit and 
you're waffling, it's not gonna happen. Did they commit enough to win here, Mr. Baris? 
Richard Baris: No, no. And I-I think Kelly 
probably will be closer, which is, uh, reverse, but we did see Warnock kind of collapse 
a little bit over a couple of week period. I think part of that is, uh, Loeffler being 
stronger than Perdue was, and being out, uh, ace-more accessible than Perdue was. But 
also Warnock has had the bad coverage that he's had, uh, y-[00:43:30] at least in 
alternative media, which still gets around. And people see that, and there are some 
voters that we-we-we know these people by now, Steve. They'll tell you, "I'm 
undecided," and they're really not. They just don't want to tell you they're gonna vote 
against Warnock. Uh, we saw it in Florida, and we've seen it before. It's pretty, you 
know, pretty much, uh-
Steven K. Banno ... : 
Richard Baris: 
bias. Yeah. 
... the, uh, yeah, a social 
Steven K. Banno ... : Rich-Rich-Rich, how do people 
get to you? How do people get to you? How do they follow you during the day? 
Richard Baris: They can follow me on Twitter 
while I'm still there at Peoples_Pundit (laughs), and then, uh, [00:44:00] the election 
results will be on People's Pundit Daily, uh, dot com, and tha-that page will be up 
on, uh ... uh, in about an hour, actually. You can see the live results there. 
Steven K. Banno ... : You're amazing. Thank- thank, 
uh, thank you, and thank the brains, uh. your wife, the brains of the operation. So, 
thank you, guys, very much, the Baris, the f-Baris family. 
Richard Baris: Will do. 
Steven K. Banno ... : Thank you. Thanks. 
Richard Baris: Will do, Steve. She always sends  her best to you. 
Steven K. Banno ... : Thanks, brother. I know who the 
decision-making units are. Um, that's one of the things they teach you at Harvard 
Business School: find out who makes the decisions. [00:44:30] Second lady (laughs). 
Deb ... Buried lead from the worm. 
Okay, I want to go now to, uh, John Fredericks. John, give us an update. What-what is 
the turnout like? A lot of those polls are fine, but it's the turnout model that 
really, that really makes it during ... that really makes it during the day. So, tell 
us, uh, tell us what-what's the reality there. 
John Fredericks: Steve, we're dancing, we're 
dancing on the edge of a knife. Turnout in the Republican areas that have to be there 
are close to [00:45:00] 2016, but not there yet. So, this thing is, uh, is razor-thin. 
So, it's high as a, uh-
Steven K. Banno ... : 
the Senate? 
John Fredericks: 
sorry. 
Steven K. Banno ... : 
John Fredericks: 
Steven K. Banno ... : 
John Fredericks: 
Steven K. Banno ... : 
John Fredericks: 
Steven K. Banno ... : 
here for a second. 
John Fredericks: 2016, uh, 2016. Hold on, 2016, 
[inaudible 00:45:09] uh, I'm 
Or is it anything close to-
November 3rd. 
... 20-2020. Let's get f-
November 3rd, I'm sorry. 
That would be 2020. 
November 3rd. Right. 
Okay, I'm gonna hit the rewind 
Sorry- sorry about that. 
Steven K. Banno ... : I've got John Fredericks down in 
Georgia. I've got John Fredericks down in Georgia, and everything's about turnout. 
We'll turn it over to our man in Georgia, John Fredericks. Hey, John-
John Fredericks: (laughs) 
Steven K. Banno ... : ... what is that turnout, what 
is that turnout (laughs) ... What is this turnout like? 
John Fredericks: We're dancing on the edge of a 
knife, Steve. The-
Steven K. Banno ... : (laughs) 
John Fredericks: ... turnout right now at 11: 
[00:45:30] 00 a.m. I go for a full retake. 
Steven K. Banno ... : Touche. You're good, you're 
good, you're good.  John Fredericks: [inaudible 00:45:37] Thank you. 
It, uh ... I've got ... I've been trained well. It's high, but not where it needs to be, 
so that means we have to hope that, uh, we're gonna get a better turnout than we are 
this, uh, this morning this afternoon and tonight. So, good news is we're in striking 
distance. Bad news is, uh, we [00:46:00] didn't get a first and 10. So, it's about a 
second down and seven right now. We've got a couple downs to make this. It's gonna be 
very, very close. 
But what we're finding is, uh, two things. Number one, we've got another problem with 
Dominion machines. I know this is gonna shock, uh, your viewers today, but Dominion 
machines in several ... Get this: not one or two, I heard three of the largest 
Republican precincts at 10:00 a.m. are down. I got this from mul-multiple people 
breaking [00:46:30] live into my show, and people have been told that they cannot scan 
their ballots. So, they come into vote, they fill it out. They're told they can't scan 
their ballot 'cause the machines don't work, and they're trying to get technicians in 
there. In the meantime, they have to make their ballot out and put it in an envelope, 
and the poll workers are saying, "When it's fixed, we'll scan it for you." So, there's 
all kinds of red flags right there. Course, uh, these are happening in Republican 
areas. You can extrapolate that. It could be happenstance, but that's one of [00:47:00] 
the things. 
One of the things that, uh, Richard Baris just said that I agree a hundred percent is 
this myth about 8,000 poll watchers and-and all the sheriffs around, it's a, it's a 
complete myth. This is complete propaganda. It's the same thing as November 3rd. 
There's very little difference, got the same people there doing the same thing. 
Steven K. Banno ... : Okay. 
John Fredericks: Now-
Steven K. Banno ... : Okay, ha-hang o-hang on for a 
second, hang on for a second. I want to hold that-
John Fredericks: Sure. 
Steven K. Banno ... : ... in a dramatic pause. We're 
gonna bring you back. We're gonna cram a lot into the second hour. We've got, uh, tons 
of s-... We've got Peter Navarro, we've got [00:47:30] Fog City Midge, Jack Posobiec's 
gonna be back with breaking news. We've got Rabbi Spero. Uh, we've got Sean Parnell in 
Pennsylvania. It's jammed. We're gonna take a short commercial break. We're gonna 
return back to Georgia, and the question we're gonna start is, is this thing a sham 
about all these poll watchers and that? And most importantly, he said the turnout ... Is 
the turnout a November 3rd presidential election turnout, or is it typical Senate 
turnout? Three million votes have already been cast. We're gonna return to Georgia in a 
moment. 
[00:48:00] singing) 