Speaker 1: Well, the virus has now killed 
more than a hundred people in China and new cases have been confirmed around the world. 
Speaker 2: 
American public-
Speaker 1: 
got evacuation plans. 
Speaker 2: 
and assume-
Speaker 1: 
avoid all non-essential travel to China. 
Speaker 2: 
serious problem. So you don't wanna frighten the 
France and South Korea have also 
... but you Need to prepare for 
Strongly warning Americans to 
... that this is gonna be a real 
Speaker 3: France, Australia, Canada, the 
U.S., Singapore, Cambodia, Vietnam, the list goes on. 
Speaker 4: Health officials are 
investigating more than a hundred possible cases in the U.S. 
Speaker 5: Germany, [00:00:30] a man has, 
uh, contracted the virus. 
Speaker 6: The epidemic is a demon. And we 
cannot let this demon hide 
Speaker 5: Japan where a bus driver, uh, 
contracted the virus. 
Speaker 7: Coronavirus has killed more than 
100 people there and infected more than 4,500. 
Speaker 5: We have to prepare for the worst 
always. Because if you don't, and the worst happens ... 
Speaker 8: War Room: Pandemic, here's your 
host, Stephen K. Bannon. 
Speaker 9: [inaudible 00:01:00] 
Madison Cawthor ... : [00:01:30] The amount of fraud 
you should tolerate in an American election is zero. My name is Madison Cawthorn. My 
first act as a member of Congress will be to object to the electoral college 
certification of the 2020 election. I want to explain to you why I'm objecting. Because 
the future of our very nation depends on. Let's establish two irrefutable facts. First, 
your vote is sacred in America. A free, fair, and legal election is our birthright as 
Americans. 
Speaker 11: Hey Steve [00:02:00] Bannon, I 
just wanted to tell you that you rock. You are a media honey badger. Keep going. 
Speaker 12: Yes. 
Speaker 11: We are for you. Every single 
day, we turn into you. You are, uh ... We tune into you Monday through Saturday. Keep it  up. We are with you. You are for us and for the, this nation. 
Speaker 12: Yes. 
Speaker 11: Awesome. 
Speaker 12: Hey, man. Yes. What she said. 
Speaker 13: Thank you for being a warrior. 
Thank you. 
Speaker 12: Thank you for being warrior. We 
appreciate you. Thank you. We are in the fight with you. 
Speaker 11: 
Speaker 12: 
Speaker 11: 
Speaker 14: 
Speaker 15: 
[00:02:30] We love you. And let's stop the steal. 
Speaker 14: 
Speaker 16: 
it all the time. 
Speaker 17: 
steal. 
Speaker 16: 
Speaker 1 7: 
Speaker 16: 
Speaker 1 7: 
Speaker 16: 
Speaker 9: 
Stephen K. Bann ... : And we'll win. 
To the end. 
Yes. 
Hi, Steve. Love your show. 
Hi, Steve. I wish you were here. 
Yes. 
Hi, Steve. Love your show. Watch 
Hi, Steve. Love you. Stop the 
Make America Great. 
Make America great. 
Keep it great. 
Woo. [inaudible 00:02:44]. 
Thank you. 
[inaudible 00:02:48]. 
[00:03:00] Madison Cawthorn 
says, the new, uh, young gentleman coming up to be, take Mark Meadow's spot in Congress 
says the, um, [00:03:30] evidence is irrefutable. Welcome to the War Room. We're live 
from our nation's capital. It's 2nd January, the year of our Lord, 2021. I wanna thank 
the, uh, guys in Denver, Real America's Voice, for, uh, really going overtime to put 
this on. Couldn't have a show yesterday because of difficulties in Denver. But we're 
here grinding it every day. 
One of the most important, uh, weeks, historic weeks in the nation's history. Gonna 
culminate at least the first stage of it with an explosive 12-hour or more session 
[00:04:00] in Congress on, uh, on Wednesday. Looks like a massive rally happening. 
Donald J. Trump, uh, is gonna actually speak to the people. I think he's, he's saying 
it's gonna be 11 o'clock on Wednesday. We're gonna be covering all of that. John 
Fredericks Radio Network, Real America's Voice.  Up on the satellite dish channel 219. On cable at chan-Comcast channel 113 G News, 
GTV, and Mandarin throughout the world. We are, uh, on the streaming service. You can 
get us everywhere. And uh, we're the number one, I think, uh, conservative podcast in 
the nation. I believe, as [00:04:30] of last night, we're behind Pod Save America. But 
remember tha-that's all they do, is podcast. We're every ... We're the ubiquitous. 
We're everywhere. Okay? 
PAC Show. We got the 2020 War Room man of the year, Rudy Giuliani. We got John Eastman, 
the constitutional lawyer for the president of the United States. We've got Mark 
Serrano. Who's leading the effort over there at the Thomas Moore Society with Phil 
Klein to talk about what's gonna happen. Liz Jo. we got a massive exclusive interview 
with Archbishop ViganA2 who's gonna come out on Monday. It's explosive. [00:05:00] It's 
a through-down, a war cry against the globalist elite in the, uh, Party of Davos. Liz 
Jo's gonna give us a preview. We got Ian Smith. Uh, show is packed. 
In the fight, I wanna thank those folks. People that we couldn't get to it last week, 
we apologized. The folks that came out in Maricopa County. Absolutely unbelievable. I 
think you had the county controller resigned. I didn't want get involved in this fiasco 
in Maricopa County. The steal out there. They walked away from it. The attorney general 
then threw in and, and gave a amicus brief. 
[00:05:30] So things are shifting today. It's gonna be a, uh, a, a all-hands, uh, 
meeting with the, uh, state legislatures, uh, state legislators that, uh, that the, uh, 
Trump, uh, campaign and also, uh, others are putting on to explain this massive 
evidence of steal. You see, uh, Josh Hawley, uh, coming together. 
By the way, Mitch McConnell, Mitch McConnell, not Steve Bannon, not Jack Maxey, my 
wingman here in the War Room this morning. Mitch McConnell told the senators last week 
on a conference call, [00:06:00] this is the most important vote you will have in your 
career. Let me repeat that. This is a group of senators that voted on only the third 
time, Jack, in a trial of a sitting president for impeachment. They had an impeachment 
vote earlier in the year and he's telling em, hey, what poll's trying to do is force. 
And they don't want to have it. He's trying to force what he said is the most important 
vote you will have ever. 
That is about these electors, about the Biden slate versus the Trump slate [00:06:30] 
in these six states. It's a jampacked weekend. This is one of the most historic weeks 
in American political history and American histor overall. We're gonna start with Boris 
Epshteyn from the campaign. 
So Boris, lay out where we are, how we're gonna get there. Are, are, are, are they 
gonna be de-certifying slates? Where does this fight go? Mike Pence kind of spit the 
bit as we say. Louie Gohmert, we'd him on the show the other day. I think it's terrific 
lawsuit to say, hey, set aside the election, the Elector, uh, Count Act of 1877 
[00:07:00] And let's go right back to the constitution. The VP's hardwired into the 
constitution. And somehow the vice president of the United States and President Trump's 
Department of Justice argued against that. So walk us through where we stand 
Boris Epshteyn: Steve. Great morning to be with 
you. Thank you so much. Thanks to your listeners. Love those messages from the people 
in Arizona to you. And I'm getting them all the time on all social media, Instagram, 
Twitter, a ton of feedback, all positive about being on your show in the War Room being 
the brain trust of make [00:07:30] America great again. Brain trust of the mega 
movement. 
So here's where we stand. Last night in an interesting decision, a, a federal district 
court did rule against the Louie Gohmert lawsuit but only on standing, only on 
standing, not on the merits. Again, using that standing doctrine, the same that the 
Supreme Court used against the Texas lawsuit to punt on the issue. This time on the 
issue which is actually pretty clear, the wide, ex-expansive [00:08:00] large amount 
of power that the vice-president has in terms of counting the votes under the 12th 
Amendment of the constitution, irrespective of, of what the Electoral Count Act says. 
So here's where we stand. In Georgia, a, a, a filing has been made in district court 
because the Georgia courts have refused to give President Trump and his campaign the 
due process, which is allotted under Georgia law for an election contest. [00:08:30] An 
election contest was filed over three weeks ago and the Georgia court system has 
refused to even assign a judge to it. So now we're taking that to the district court.  The Pennsylvanian case is in front of the Supreme Court. And now there are two 
Wisconsin cases, two Wisconsin petitions [inaudible 00:08:47]. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : But hang on, hang on, hold on, 
slow down for a second. When you say, when you say in front of it, when you say in 
front of it, having the courts basically come back and said, hey, we see all these 
things, but either no standing, or latches, or we just don't wanna deal with it. And 
the Supreme Court's a perfect example. You had a [00:09:00] great lawsuit. I think the 
most tightly argued you've had to date, John Eastman's gonna be on next. And 
essentially, it's crickets, right? Cause they're esse-basically telling you, we don't 
wanna deal with it. Is, is that what the audience should take away from this? Given the 
evidence, all the constitutional issues, everything they're saying, no Mos, we just 
don't want, we don't wanna get involved in this. 
Boris Epshteyn: What the Supreme Court is saying 
is that, right now, you're right, they don't wanna get involved. But what our 
perspective is, and what the fact is, that there are [00:09:30] 46 electoral votes. And 
then you include Arizona where they're 11, then you go to 57. 57 electoral votes, which 
are in contest right now in front of the United States Supreme Court. Meaning 
petitions, fiduciary petitions for the court to take it up are pending. 
So there's no way to say that the election contests are over, or election contests are 
not continuing, everything is decided. If you count the federal court as being under 
the purview of the Supreme Court, [00:10:00] which obviously they are-
Stephen K. Bann ... : 
us, uh, uh-Yeah. Yeah. But hang on. I wanna 
Boris Epshteyn: ... 57 electoral votes in 
contest. Which is the reason [inaudible 00:10:05]. Just lemme through real quick. Which 
is the reason-
Stephen K. Bann ... : Your Rudy ... By the way, we, we 
got Eastman, the constitutional lawyer for the president, next. We got Rudy, the head 
lawyer. You're the deputy over there. I just gotta ask this, correct me if I'm wrong, 
and I'm not a lawyer. And I don't pretend to be one, right? I turn, I turn that over to 
you. You know, I hire lawyers, right? So, um, you ... Is, isn't ... And this is what the 
Pen suit is about. Just to kind of boil it down to the essence of the thing itself. 
[00:10:30] The courts, the Supreme Court, Mike Pence, Pelosi, and McConnell, um, 
everybody is just, I think sitting there and they're turning and they're saying, hey, 
we read the constitution and says state legislatures. It's their problem. And that's 
where the certification is. I think it's one of the reasons you're gonna have this 
briefing today in the state, uh, legi-in the ... Pennsylvania comes back Monday. 
There's a firestorm out in Arizona. When you boil it down, doesn't this get back to the 
state legislatures? [00:11:00] They either certify the Biden slates or they don't. And 
if they don't, you go have a con-you have a contention election, right? So, so is, 
isn't that the essence of it and the courts are just gonna take a Pasadena on this 
thing? 
Boris Epshteyn: It's, it's the legislat-
legislatures in this, in the states. No doubt about it. It's incumbent it upon them in 
Georgia, in Pennsylvania, in Wisconsin, in Michigan, in Arizona. And I'll call out the 
ones which are Democrat-controlled in Nevada, in New Mexico to do the right thing, to 
do the right [00:11:30] thing by the American people and have special sessions continue 
investigating. 
The amount of fraud is absolutely staggering. We're talking about over 400,000 fraudu­
uh, fraudulent ballots alleged in Georgia. We know for a fact, from the recount in 
Wisconsin, that just in Milwaukee, Dane County, I talk about this a lot, over 220,000 
fraudulent ballots. We know the 700,000 ballots in Pennsylvania which were mail-in 
absentee which were not [00:12:00] observed when they were being counted. 
We know that the number of the, of around two hun-200,000 more votes than voters. 
Than-more votes cast that people who signed into vote in Pennsylvania is real. All 
this information is out there. All this information is being presented. And these state  legislators cannot stick their head in the sand and say this has nothing to do with us. 
You're right. The courts are saying it is incumbent upon them to ac-act. And it is 
[00:12:30] very clearly in the article tool of our constitution spelled out. That it is 
the duty and the job of the state legislatures to determine how elections are held. And 
it is their duty then to determine who the correct electors are. So what's absolutely 
reputable. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : 
should .... Yeah. 
Boris Epshteyn: 
00:12:50]-
Stephen K. Bann ... : 
audience look for? We gotta a-Yeah, go ahead. What should, what should, what 
Now, most of [inaudible 
What, what, what should our 
Boris Epshteyn: ... that the vice president has 
an extensive amount of power. And when it ca-does come on the sixth, we already 
[00:13:00] know that there's electors from both the Biden side and the Trump side that 
have been sent to Congress. That was done on December 14th. The vice president's got a 
lot of power. And that's very important recognizing this case for Louie Gohmert 
dismissed only on standing, on procedure not on the merits. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : That's a huge deal. Repeat that 
to the audience. I wanna make sure everybody understands this. You got the buried lead 
right there. Walk us through it again. We got about a minute. 
Boris Epshteyn: The vice president has a ton of 
power in terms of opening and counting the electoral, uh, the electoral college votes 
at the joint [00:13:30] session on the sixth. That power is enumerated in the 12th 
Amendment of the counts institution. The Louie Gohmert lawsuit, which wanted to have e­
effectively declarative judgment highlighting that power was, was dismissed yesterday 
in a lower federal court, but only on standing, only on procedure, not on the merits. 
The merits have not been adjudicated. Which means the power stands. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : Uh, Boris, give us your, uh, 
social media so that, uh, people can follow you during the day. They gotta follow you 
this [00:14:00] week. You can dump Boris after Wednesday, but up from between now and 
Wednesday, you gotta be on the ground with Boris. 
Boris Epshteyn: Well, it'd be nice if you kept 
me around. On the ground. Boris_Epshteyn, Boris E-P-S-H-T-Y-N, putting out a ton of 
content on, uh, in terms of what's happening suits, et cetera, et cetera. Twitter, 
@BorisEP. Parler, @Boris. Instagram, Boris_Epstein. Twitter @BorisEP. Parler, @Boris. 
God bless. Rock and roll. We're going to have a huge historic week for America. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : [00:14:30] Thank you, brother. 
Uh, a, a guy granted 21st. I remember Madison Cawthorn started this by saying he's in. 
On Monday, ladies and gentlemen, there was one. There was Mo Brooks, one man alone. 
CNN's in meltdown yesterday. There's 160 congressmen right now. And guess what? They're 
gonna cross the 200 congressmen, I think by, by, uh, Sunday. It's time for Minority 
Leader McCarthy to step up and say, I am Spartacus. Okay? Short break. We'll be back in 
a second. 
Speaker 8: War Room: Pandemic [00:15:00] 
with Stephen K. Banner. 
Speaker 6: The epidemic is a demon. And we 
cannot let this demon hide. 
Speaker 8: War Room: Pandemic. Here's your  host, Stephen K. Bannon. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : Welcome back to, uh, War Room: 
uh, Pandemic. Uh, we're live from the nation's Capital. It's 2nd January, the year of 
our Lord, 2021. Just finished a historic year 2020. Trust me, this is gonna be big. Uh, 
we're gonna John Eastman. A little technical crime getting John Eastman on the 
constitutional lawyer for the president. [00:15:30] Massive constitutional fights going 
on behind the scenes. 
People don't understand president Trump did not return dramatically to the nation's 
capital and the White House with Melania and basically shine on his, um, his, uh, New 
ear's Eve party, which is kind of one of his pride and joys. Then come back here and 
actually left early. Come back in the morning to go through and he ... This is a fight. 
Okay. This is a fight. He was there to, to ... And look at the hundred names, he gotta 
get those back up there in the House, that helped override the, uh, President Trump's 
veto. And the NDA [00:16:00] was unacceptable. The 20, uh, congressmen from yesterday 
or senators from, from yesterday, Republicans that joined in to, uh, to override 
President Trump's veto, the NDA. And Marco Rubio, top of the list. 
Um, you know, little Marco, uh, Marco Rubio's done a good job on China. He's been 
there. He's trying to get a little more populous. But now it's time to stand and 
deliver. This is a defining moment. This is what happens in forth turnings. This is a 
defining moment. People will remember this one forever. It's where [00:16:30] you were 
in this fight. Because here's what folks to understand. We are inundated 24/7 with 
information and leads and new things. And one of the things we do, and this is from 
Breitbart, you gotta, you gotta, you gotta separate the weed from the chef. And you 
particularly in this ladies and gentlemen. You have to avoid the fantasist. 
There's all types of people that want to get involved and they wanna be James Bond, and 
they wanna be fantasists. You ca-you must separate out and focus on what is real. And 
particularly, what you can [00:17:00] make actionable. Okay? I'll get into more of that 
later. But one of the things about the, the signal versus the noise we have to get 
into. 
This deal that got forced through between the Chinese Communist Party and Germany, 
Germany led when their EU. The Merkel's elected president of the European Union. That 
Party of Davos. They jammed this thing through it at the last second. A really and 
alliance between the EU and the CCP. And, and trust me, if we don't secure the victory 
of President Trump, this is the whole thing with the cli-[00:17:30] Paris climate 
change. It's all gonna be pivoted off of the Party of Davos, which Biden is the 
representative of. This is, this is one of the things they had to jam in there. 
This is signal not [inaudible 00:17:41]. We gonna spend a lot more time with that. I've 
got analysts working on it. Geo-people in geopolitics, people in finance, this is 
going to change your life. Archbishop, uh, ViganA2, one of the great thinkers in the 
world is gonna come out. We have a massive exclusive interview which sets the framework 
for this great conflict between [00:18:00] the nationalist populist throughout the 
world and the Party of Davos. 
Remember it was four years ago in two-uh, four years ago in the 2017. She gave the 
speech in Davos on Wednesday. And Donald Trump gave his first inaugural address a 
couple days later that laid out the difference between the Westphalian system, the 
system of independent nation states that work in alliances versus this global network 
that is the Party of Da-Davos. 
Remember there are no conspiracies, but there also no coincidences. This happening 
[00:18:30] is going to have a major impact in your life, your children's life, your 
financial life. And we're gonna have somebody from the New Federal State of China on 
the second hour with [inaudible 00:18:38]. Turning now to one of the great thinkers 
about the constitution, and also a man of action. He's the president ... Rudy Giuliani 
runs it overall. He's the president's lawyer, runs it The overall, uh, operation over 
there. 
But John Eastman is the constitutional lawyer that's been putting up these, these 
lawsuits. John, first off, th-this, this argument of what's actually happening at the 
state basis and what happened [00:19:00] in the constitution that you and I happened to 
be on a call last night, and you were walking people through was so brilliant. Could 
you just walk people through what the framework is for this week and, and why you 
think, and you've been arguing in court and putting these, uh, briefings and these  suits out there, that this is just outrageous, that, that we're going down this path? 
John Eastman: Sure. I mean, the U.S. 
constitution, very clearly, assigns the power of, uh, selecting the manner for choosing 
electors to the legislatures of the state. Uh, for many years in our nation's history, 
the legislatures just picked [00:19:30] the president electors themselves. Um, but, but 
modernly, and for about the last century, uh, or century and a half in some cases, uh, 
the legislators have said we're gonna do this by popular vote, but we're gonna do it in 
accord with election laws that we pass election, laws requiring signature verification 
on absentee ballots, uh, election law laws require you to prove voter ID. 
All of those things designed to minimize the risk of fraud in how we conduct the 
election. And in a number of states, [00:20:00] and most egregiously in Georgia and 
Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, um, partisan-elected officials, and in some cases, partisan 
judicial officials ignored or altered those legislative commands and conducted the 
election in violation of the manner that the legislature had set out. That, that means 
the election was illegally conducted. And you don't even have to get into the number of 
ballots affected. It was illegally conducted. 
And I'll give you, I think, the most egregious example. In Georgia, they have a 
provision that if you, if you have evidence [00:20:30] of fraud or, or irregularities, 
uh, or evidence that a significant number of illegal ballots have been cast or legal 
ballots not properly counted, you can bring an election contest within five days after 
the conclusion of the recount. 
Uh, they did that on December 4th in Georgia. And, uh, here we are a month later and we 
still don't even have a judge assigned to hear that case. And yet the governor went 
ahead three days after that challenge was brought and certified the electors, 
completely ignoring [00:21:00] the statutory mechanism set out for resolving election 
disputes. Uh, and that means we have a failed election. 
And another provision in federal law. Three United States Code section two that says 
when the state has failed to choose electors on the date assigned by Congress, the 
power to choose the electors devolves back to the legislature because they have the 
ultimate constitutional authority here. And we've got a lot of legislatures that are 
afraid to exercise that constitutional power because they think they have to get 
[00:21:30] permission from the governor to have their session, or they've gotta get 
permission from the courts, uh, to do anything. 
No, this is a power the constitution assigns exclusively to those state legislatures. 
And they need to act. Because what we have here is massive evidence that this election 
was at least conducted illegally, uh, uh, you know, in violation of the state statutes, 
but lots of evidence as well that, as a result of that illegal conduct, removing checks 
against fraud in the absentee ballot process that we have absentee fraud, [00:22:00] 
uh, the, more than enough to have affected the outcome of the election. 
Uh, and I think it's the duty of these legislatures to fix this, uh, this egregious 
conduct and make sure that we're not putting in the White House some guy that didn't 
get elected. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : This is what the constitutional 
crisis is. I wanna be very specific and, and drill down to this, 'cause this is gonna 
be historic. This is ... We're, We, we are entering into one of the most, um, important 
constitutional crisis the country's ever had. 
Your theory of [00:22:30] the case, essentially, if you got, if, if you did, if they 
did, did give you an expedited hearing, if you went through all this process and you're 
filing other suits or just as powerful, at the end of the day, isn't what the Supreme 
Court's gonna say, and look, I'm not a constitutional guy, but aren't they gonna say, 
hey John, great argument, uh, we, we gotta, we're not gonna overturn the Biden 
electors, we're gonna flip this whole thing back to the state legislatures? And they've 
gotta either re-reaffirm they've gotta stand up. Isn't this all get back to the state 
legislatures, [00:23:00] and particularly in these five states? 
John Eastman: There, there, there're two 
places where it gets back to. It gets back to the state legislatures because, because 
their process was not followed. And it was deliberately not followed. This was a 
concerted effort to thwart the checks, the anti fraud provisions they had put into  place. Uh, so it devolved back to the state legislature. And the only other place where 
it devolves back to is the Congress, and par-particularly the vice president who will 
sit in presiding over a joint session of Congress, beginning January 6th, to count the 
[00:23:30] ballots. 
And they've got, they've got multiple slates of ballots from seven states. And they've 
gotta decide, uh, which of the, which is the valid slate to count. Uh, uh, I think they 
have that authority to make that determination on their own, but it would certainly be 
helped immensely if the legislatures in the states look at what happened in their own 
states and weigh in, exercising their power under the U.S. constitution. 
And here's the, the biggest problem. We haven't had this happen ... You know, there was 
o-one, one minor event in 1960 outta Hawaii, [00:24:00] but we haven't had it happen 
on the scale that we have now with multiple slates from multiple states since 1876. 
They don't understand that the power they have to exercise here is not derived from 
their state constitution. It's derived from the federal constitution. 
So restrictions on that power, like we, we can only meet with the permission of the 
governor of our state, restrictions on that power, uh, are preempted by the federal 
constitution. They have this power directly from the federal constitution. And they ... 
And it's there for a reason. Because it's much [00:24:30] easier to corrupt a single 
executive official than it was to corrupt the entire legislature to have an outcome. 
And they wanted the branch of government closest to the people, which is the 
legislature, to be the one that has the ultimate say about here. And, and, and these 
guys need to understand their constitutional authority, uh, and their constitutional 
duty to put a stop to this egregious violation of law that has occurred. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : The, the, the Louie Gohmert suit 
is essentially saying that the Electoral, [00:25:00] Electoral Count Act of 1877 is 
unconstitutional. Again, go back to the constitution, and there, the president of the 
Senate, the vice president of the United States, is hardwired in. And he's actually a 
decision maker. This is not ministerial. It, it is that correct? 
John Eastman: Right. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : And last night, the ruling was 
so impa-important because the judge didn't wanna touch the merits, right? It's, once 
again, you got no standing. 
John Eastman: Right. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : A, are, are we to assume that 
this is gonna be a [inaudible 00:25:23] battle that's gonna take place this week about 
the very question of the constitutionality of the Electoral Count Act of 1877. 
John Eastman: [00:25:30] Well, I think a lot 
of that depends on the courage and the spine of the individuals involved. But look, uh, 
uh, I, I love representative Gohmert. I think he's terrific. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : Congra- but, but, uh, uh, can we 
ask you to stay through the commercial break and bring you back? 
John Eastman: Sure. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : I know you're ... Sorry to swamp, 
but, but here's the reason. When you just said the courage in the spine, we know Louie 
Gohmert's got all the cour-He's pure honey badger. Judge Gohmert from down Texas One. 
That is guy as tough as Texas boot leather. Okay? Are you talking on the other side of 
the football? [00:26:00] Would you be, would you be ... That would be a nice way to say 
a guy named Mike, uh, Vice President Mike Pence. 
John Eastman: Yes.  Stephen K. Bann ... : 
you on a spot like that, John. You're too good man, 
John Eastman: I don't wanna, I don't wanna put 
John, John Eastman. (laughs) 
Stop. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : One of the most decent guys I've 
ever met. So hell, we're gonna take a short commercial break. We're returned with the 
president's constitutional lawyer, John Eastman. Also gonna bring in his personal 
lawyer and the guy running the entire thing, War Room's 2020 man of the year, Rudy 
Giuliani [00:26:30] all next on the other side of this commercial break with Jack 
Maxey, Stephen K. Bannon live from the nation's capital. We'll return in a moment. 
Speaker 8: War Room: Pandemic with Stephen 
K. Bannon. 
Speaker 6: The epidemic is a demon. And we 
cannot let this demon hide. 
Speaker 8: War Room: Pandemic. Here's your 
host, Stephen K. Bannon. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : Okay. We're gonna do cold opens, 
but we're jam for time. We got, uh, John Eastman, the president's constitutional 
lawyer. [00:27:00] Uh, walk us through, uh, Brother Eastman, what you think is, how is 
this going to evolve and what should the audience ... We, we pride ourselves on 
tomorrow's news today in the signal, not the noise. 
There's a lot of noise out there. Guys are running around. People are not qualified 
telling state legislatures what their constitutional powers are or not. You've got this 
[inaudible 00:27:19] thing. Nancy Pelosi and the ... The wood chopping you hear is Nancy 
Pelosi and Mitch McConnell working nonstop to be changing rules. So trust me, they 
don't don't want a big, they don't want [00:27:30] 20, you know, they don't want 12 
hours, two hours per state on showing these receipts on Wednesday. 
So you've got guys working here 24/7, trying to chop block the president of the United 
States, and particularly his defense of this Republic and the constitution. So John 
Eastman, you're the, you're the lead sled dog here, what, what, what should people be 
looking for? 
John Eastman: Well, I think they ought to not 
just be looking for it, but they ought to be putting pressure on their state 
legislatures. So if you're in Georgia or Pennsylvania or Wisconsin or Arizona, call 
your legislatures, demand that they [00:28:00] have, uh, that they call themselves into 
session, which they have the constitutional authority to do, no restriction, and their 
constitution telling them they can't exercise its power is valid. It it's, it's 
preempted by the federal constitution. 
There's a little thing in the federal constitution called the supremacy clause. And it 
says the laws and constitution of the United States are the supreme law of the land. 
Nothing in the state laws or state constitution's to the contrary not withstanding. It 
cannot be more clear here. And pressure needs to be brought on these recalcitrant 
legislators, [00:28:30] um, to call themselves into session and to make an assessment 
of what happened in their state. 
And then either de-certify, uh, the existing slate of electors if there's just too much 
uncertainty about the results of the election. Or certify the correct slate of electors 
if the, uh, if the, if the number of ballots that are shifted, if you get rid of the 
illegal ones, are enough to affect the outcome, as we believe they are. They need to do 
that this week before Wednesday. So pressure, pressure beginning now. And, and, and, 
you know, rolling thunder pressure. [00:29:00] If you find one guy's saying, well, I 
can't do anything, the leader is, is the one blocking it. And shift the focus to the 
leader. 
The second thing that needs to happen is, look, look, um, uh, I, I, I think what's 
gonna happen or should happen in Congress is we can't count a, slates of electors that  were illegally certified. Uh, and if they were certified after an election that 
violated fundamental state law, those are illegally certified. If you were or I were to 
submit a, a, a bank mortgage application to Fannie Mae or Freddie [00:29:30] Mac that 
had that kind of misrepresentation on it, we would be in prison. So the, so, so we need 
to bolster the authority of our leaders in Congress to not accept, uh, fraudulently 
certified slates of electors. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : Okay. We're gonna be putting 
that up, uh, from Denver in a moment. Just hang on there. Okay. One last question. Is 
the president's best path to, to affirm his victory of November 3rd, uh, hang on, 
getting a [00:30:00] contingent election here in the House of Representative? Or is 
there a way, an alternative way that you see the power through this using either the 
Electoral Control Act or some decision that made that the vice president of the United 
States grows a spine and understands his constitutional duty as you interpret it, Mr. 
Eastman? 
John Eastman: Yeah. Yeah. So look, uh, we've 
got, we've got cert petitions pending in the Supreme Court on this very question from 
Pennsylvania and Georgia. A new case was filed New Year's Eve in ... I'm, I'm sorry, 
[00:30:30] from Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. And a new case was filed Christmas, uh, New 
Year's Eve in Georgia, raising the same thing. The states ignored their state election 
law. And those slates of electors are invalid. 
And I think if the vice president, as presiding over the joint session, would at least 
agree that because those ongoing ca-uh, contests have not been resolved, we can't 
count those electors. That, that, that means that nobody has a majority of the 
electors. Um, and either they delay things, so those constitutional challenges 
[00:31:00] are resolved, uh, or they say, okay, well, we don't have electors from those 
states, that, nobody has a majority. This is going to the House. Either out, either 
route requires that we look at what actually happened here and get to the bottom of it. 
This is more, this is about more than who wins this particular race. We no longer-
Stephen K. Bann ... : Yes. 
John Eastman: ... have a self-governing 
republic if the, if the elections that, that we participate in are meaningless because 
of fraud. Uh, and that's, that's the stakes. Are, are we gonna be a self-governing 
[00:31:30] republic? Or are we not? Those are the stakes. And it's, it's much bigger 
than whether President Biden or President Trump, uh, gets sworn into office on, on 
January 20th. This goes to the heart of whether we're a Republican form of government. 
And whether we get to control the direction of our government or not. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : This is why Mitch McConnell said 
the other day, when he got on a conference, he told these guys who had just voted nine 
months before o-only the third time in the history of public at a trial to impeach a 
president told him this [00:32:00] will be the most important vote you ever take. John 
Eastman, how do people get to your social media so they can follow you during the day, 
sir? 
John Eastman: 
and John Eastman at, uh, at Parler. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : 
you for joining us here in the [inaudible 00:32:15]. 
John Eastman: 
good work. Uh, Dr. John Eastman at Twitter 
You're a good man, sir. Thank 
Than you, Steve. Keep up the 
Stephen K. Bann ... : Thank you. Thank you, sir. Uh, I 
wanna bring in now the War Rooms 2020 man of the year, Rudy Giuliani, uh, America's 
mayor. Mayor Giuliani, I gotta go to the, uh, cut right to the chase. You, you have 
been obsessed [00:32:30] with one thing as I've known you as a friend, a colleague, 
and, and somebody working on this for weeks and weeks and weeks and weeks. And it goes  off of, uh, what John Eastman just said. 
It's about the responsibility. Not simply the constitutional responsibility, but the 
moral responsibility of these state legislatures who never signed up. They understand 
they never signed up for this 'cause we never thought about it. But right now, Eastman, 
Eastman frames it perfectly. And even Mitch McConnell said the quiet [00:33:00] part 
out loud last week. This is more important then do-And Trump understands this. This is 
more important than November 3rd. This is more important than even Trump's presidency 
as it, it confirm his victory. This is more important, this fight between the 
nationalists and the globalists, is more important to fight between progressives and 
conservative, is more important than this fight between Republicans and Democrats. 
This get to the heart. If you go read Roman history, this is like towards how 
[00:33:30] the Republic fell, right? And became a totalitarian or authoritarian empire. 
We're at that moment. And that's what this week is. And Mayor Giuliani, you have been 
obsessed with the responsibilities of the state legislature and what they can't do, 
which is to essentially break the law and send this forward. Will you explain to our 
audience wha-the details and what you mean by that? 
Rudy Giuliani: Well, what I mean, what I mean 
by that is the founding fathers figured out where to point the finger of 
responsibility. And [00:34:00] the buck stops with the state legislatures. It's right 
in the constitution, article two, section one, cause two. It may be that we didn't pay 
that much attention to it in the past cause we haven't, but it's been there from the 
beginning. And it makes clear that it's their responsibility. And when they took an 
oath of office, they all took an oath of office to uphold that constitution, including 
that clause. 
The founders even anticipated a close, difficult, and contested election. [00:34:30] 
And they made a deliberate choice to give it to the legislators closest to the people. 
Now, I believe, and I don't think, um, far off, and I think most people will understand 
this, this election will be scrutinized for years. Maybe for many years. This wou­
could be the most historic vote they cast. And certainly is gonna probably be the most 
scrutinized in terms of their political careers, their personal lives, and what we 
think of them as men and women of integrity. 
And, uh, the, if you just focus [00:35:00] on it, they are being asked now to sit by 
and watch a fraud get perpetrated in the name of their state. This is before we get to 
whether Trump won. What we know is the vote count is substantially wrong. We know that 
in each one of those states, and I can go through each one. You know, I'll pick just 
one. Arizona. We know in Arizona that illegal immigrants, uh, people without 
citizenship voted. [00:35:30] That is not considered in the vote count of Arizona. 
32,000, at least. Determined by, not the best sources. We had to go to newspapers and 
records, but they're all for sure, illegals. 
So you gotta deduct 32,000 from this vote count. Uh, same thing with ... I'm sorry, dead 
people can't vote. Well, 8,000 of them voted in Arizona. And they're counted. We call 
that a fraud. They submitted a statement to the government. [00:36:00] And that 
statement is a false statement. They have to take responsibility for that, for good or 
for bad. They can't get away with it by saying, oh, it's too complicated. I didn't 
understand. I had those responsibilities. And I don't think history is gonna let them 
get away with it. So I have to impress on them. I hope over the next couple of days, 
and no one does it better than Professor Eastman. That this is a decision with great 
consequences. 
It also is, as you point out, we've [00:36:30] had a terrible year for human rights and 
civil rights. We've had our freedom of speech trampled. We've had our freedom of a 
religion attacked terribly. We've had our freedom of movement virtually taken away from 
is. If look at those three things and we're starting to look like, you know, East 
Germany before the, before the wall. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : But. 
Rudy Giuliani: And now-
Stephen K. Bann ... : But when you lo-This is what I 
want ... But hang, hang on second.  Rudy Giuliani: [inaudible 00:36:53]. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : I wanna get to this. This ... 
Yeah, but here, here's the po-here's one of the points I want you to address. The au­
audience [00:37:00] that's worked so hard, and this is the most powerful audience in 
all media, 'cause we have activists who'd go do it and the, the, they'll burn down the 
phone lines. They're sitting there li-they're like in a Kafkaesque novel. They're, 
they're, they're looking and say, hey, we got Eastman and Rudy, you know, we got Trump. 
And they're making this argument. They got the receipts. They got the evidence in every 
vertical and, and the ill-illegal, the voter fraud vertical. 
Rudy Giuliani: Yes, correct. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : The ballot fraud vertical, the 
election fraud vertical, the no chain of casting the mail-in. And that's even before 
let's leave off to the side dominion and what's gonna take longer [00:37:30] and real 
investigations from, from law enforcement [inaudible 00:37:32] 
Rudy Giuliani: Sure, sure, sure. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : But that's, that's a free 
option. That's huge too, but that's for another day. You got all of this, which are 
hundreds of thousands. And these are Republican-controlled legislatures. What pe-the 
disconnect is ... Mayor, how, when evidence, is that overwhelming? When their 
constitutional duties are so specific, how do you have guys running around telling them 
you have no power, you just have to take a pass on this and let it just play out the 
way it's gonna play out? Ha-ha-[00:38:00] how did they, how do they have these people 
out there that are telling them that? 
Rudy Giuliani: Well, this is why this election 
is bigger than Donald Trump, Joe Biden, you me or any of us. Because this is a, um, 
this, this is a pernicious scheme by the Democrat Party to steal this election. And 
these Republicans, some of them unknowingly, but some of them knowingly, are 
participating in it. I mean, and, and if you let this happen, it's only gonna happen 
again. [00:38:30] It's happening right now in the Senate race in Georgia. 
And we're maybe three, four votes away from getting the Georgia legislature to de­
certify and to certify Donald Trump. And the people blocking it right now are people, 
uh, like, uh, Speaker Ralston, who is a good man, but somehow he is got himself hung up 
on whether he can call a special session or not. He can't possibly have himself hung up 
on fraudulent voting. The, the committee [00:39:00] has had 50 witnesses, uh, uh, 
documentary evidence, motion pictures that show fraud. 
Uh, Trump ... You can ... I can demonstrate you that Trump won the state by 80 or 90,000 
votes at a minimum. He knows all that. He's a smart man. But he's all hung up on, can 
we call a special session? And that's where Professor Eastman is so important. Because 
he explains that you have that right by virtue of the fact that this is a special 
[00:39:30] power you have given to you by the United States constitution. And it is 
true that some of them have had a hard time believing that, accepting it. It's a little 
bit like, I'm just a state representative. You mean I get to choose the president? Yes, 
sir. Yes, ma'am. You do. Our founding fathers put the finger responsibility on you. 
This is your job. And-
Stephen K. Bann ... : Ma-mayor, mayor, could you hang 
ov-could you hang over just through a commercial break? 
Rudy Giuliani: Of course. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : I've a couple more questions. 
Rudy Giuliani: Of course.  Stephen K. Bann ... : Okay. Mayor Rudy Giu-Mayor Rudy 
Julian. And, and, and did, did ... I just [00:40:00] hear some breaking news. You're 
three or four vote way in the Gouse or in the Senate in Georgia? 
Rudy Giuliani: I would say we're three or four 
votes away in the Senate in Georgia. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : Okay. 
Rudy Giuliani: And we don't know how many votes 
we're away in the House, but we understand that Speaker Ralston, if he were to bring it 
to the floor, probably [inaudible 00:40:16]. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : I'll tell, I'll tell, I'll tell 
you what? Let's, le-let's, uh, let's, let's we, we're gonna return with that. Mayor 
Rudy Giuliani, the president's lawyer. We're gonna take a short commercial break. We're 
gonna return with Mayor Giuliani, Mark Serrano, Liz Jo, [00:40:30] all in the 11 
o'clock hour. We'll be back in a moment. 
Speaker 8: War Room: Pandemic with Stephen 
K. Bannon. 
Speaker 6: The epidemic is a demon. And we 
cannot let this demon hide 
Speaker 8: War Room: Pandemic. Here's your 
host, Stephen K. Bannon. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : We started the week with one, 
uh, Mo Brooks. Uh, we've gotten ... We'll play video in the next thing. We now have 160. 
I think we're going to 200. And I think Kevin McCarthy's gonna be part of that. You 
know why? He's not [00:41:00] gonna have a choice. Okay. Mitch McConnell is working 
nonstop not to have other people stand up with the brave Josh Hawley. Rudy Giuliani, 
the president's lawyer is our, is our guest. 
Mayor, just in thinking through the critical path between now and this historic day on 
Wednesday. I know you're, you're working nonstop. And by the way, everybody should know 
Mayor Giuliani is like putting in 20, you know, 20 hours a day. And, and Mayor, I think 
you're on the other side of 70. I don't wanna get, you know? I, I know it's not, I know 
you, you wanna shave a few years off that, but you're, [00:41:30] you're, you're ... 
I've never seen a guy ... The president and, and Rudy Giuliani are, are I, I, insane 
about how hard they work, and how many hours they work, and how they never take a day 
off. 
Mayor, walk people through ... You're actually not ... One of the things people don't 
think understand is you're not going to be actually able to prosecute the case on 
Wednesday. You've actually got to do a, a shift. You're, you're working state 
legislatures. You're working nonstop. The hill ... Your team's got now doing a whipping 
thing that [00:42:00] you see these guys in the hill, all standing up and saying, hey, 
I am Spartacus, right? Did you ... I know you're working in the Senate. 
But one of the most important things is that your voice, your guidance, from Gettysburg 
to Phoenix, to Georgia, it's always been you, right? And your team, this amazing team 
you've put together to argue this and to really drive this and to drive Biden now 
50/50. And the American people think it's illegal and illegitimate. It's an 
unbelievable with, with the tech ga-the, the oligarchs shutting it down in Silicon 
Valley in mainstream media. 
You have to do a transition. [00:42:30] Walk people ... How are you going to do that? 
Are you going to brief people up? Are you gonna turn things over? Are they not gonna 
let you speak? On Wednesday, we're gonna see Rudy on TV or is it gonna be Josh Hawley, 
Jim Jordan? Wha-what's the process? 
Rudy Giuliani: Well, none, no lawyers can  speak, uh, for either candidate in this, this kind of proceeding. And it's very much 
like the concluding impeachment debate where it has to be carried by the members. And 
there, I think we're very fortunate. First of all, in the House, we have, not only 
skilled lawyers, but I mean [00:43:00] they went through that immigration whole 
situation. And if you watch their development, they-
Stephen K. Bann ... : You mean, you mean, you mean 
impea- you mean the impeachment, the impeachment? 
Rudy Giuliani: Right. Yeah. And, and, yeah. 
And, and impeachment. If you, if you look at people like Jim Jordan and Matt Gaetz and, 
uh ... Gosh, I mean, they're, they are, they are skilled. They're some of the finest 
trial lawyers. And Hawley's stepping forward. I know, I guess he's the youngest member 
of, of, of the Senate. But, uh, this guy is a very, very good lawyer. Supreme Court law 
clerk, but also a prosecutor. Uh, he knows what he's doing. I [00:43:30] was really 
glad ... You know, the only person I'd match him with in the Senate would be, uh, 
Lindsey, in terms of legal ability and the ability ... And not just legal litigation 
ability. 
So yes, we're briefing them, uh, and their staff, basically turning over the knowledge 
that we have to them. They'll decide what they want to use of it. Uh, but that's going 
pretty smoothly. We're gonna have a session today. We've been working around the clock 
and we have staff exchanging things. The Senate gets a little bit different because 
there's an awful lot of work for [00:44:00] Josh Hawley, just Josh himself. Uh, I hope 
a few more join him, you know, to, to, um, to, to take up [inaudible 00:44:13]. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : Well, that's the case. By, by 
the way, you, you, you've got, you've got Ted Cruz, you've got, you've got Lindsey 
Graham. You've got, uh, Tom Cotton from Harvard Law School. You've got some heavies 
over in the Senate where I ... You know, you started with one on Monday with Mo Brooks. 
You've got 160 now. And I think you're gonna see 200 by the end of the weekend. You've 
got, um, you've [00:44:30] got, uh, you know, you've got one man alone with Josh 
Hawley. Wha-what's the probability we get some of the other heavy hitters like Tom 
Cruz-
Rudy Giuliani: I think we'll ten-
Stephen K. Bann ... : ... like Tom Cotton? 
Rudy Giuliani: I think I, I ... First of all, I 
think we're gonna have, you know, a lot of support, a lot more support than you think. 
I think they, they are afraid of Mitch. And therefore they're waiting a little. I think 
we'll have at least five to 10 that'll be active. And I think we'll have support from 
a, a large number. I don't want to guess at a number yet, but it's gonna be a lot more 
than people think. 
And in the House, um, [00:45:00] we've got veterans. (laughs) You know, we have 
veterans of this kind of process. Um, Andy Biggs and ... I, I don't wanna mention just a 
few, but Gaetz and Biggs and Jordan. I mean, Jordan's a terrific trial lawyer. He 
ripped the [inaudible 00:45:14]. I'm, I'm sorry we're missing Mark Meadows. I told him, 
can you go and ask a couple of Doug Collins? I mean, they were, they were some of the 
best. But we'll be okay there. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : Ma-
Rudy Giuliani: I mean, of course I'm 
frustrated. I'm really frustrated that I can't do it and Jenna can't do it. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : Yap. 
Rudy Giuliani: I mean, we know we're the best. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : That's right. [00:45:30] Yeah.  Rudy Giuliani: 
Stephen K. Bann ... : 
Rudy Giuliani: 
very good hands. But, but-
Let me, let me-
... I think, I think we're in 
Stephen K. Bann ... : Last, last question. Is the ... 
You, you've made your name on breaking the Five Families. You ever saw The Sopranos. 
Hey, Rudy Giuliani put the Five Families outta business. Rudy Giuliani put the mob on 
Wall Street outta business. You're a, you're a legendary prosecutor. Do you believe we 
need a special prosecutor on this now? 
Rudy Giuliani: Yes, sir. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : Do you believe there's a RICO, 
do you think there's a RICO case to actually go after? We got about two minutes. 
Rudy Giuliani: Yeah. The answer is ... You know, 
I answered a before you finished it. The answer is yes, sir. [00:46:00] We need a, we 
need a special prosecutor. Now, first of all, you're gonna be plagued with conflict 
questions. And there'll be real ones. And second, a RICO case is not impossible, but 
it's a complex case to put together. And maybe in this country, there are 20 people, 25 
people that really have had experience in doing it. And it needs that. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : Wow. 
Rudy Giuliani: 
family case. This 
prosecutor begins 
Joe's the head of This is, this is the Biden crime 
is not a hunt to Biden. Don't fool yourself. The minute any ethical 
looking at this, within [00:46:30] 20 documents, you go right to Joe. 
this. 30 years. And it gets prescribed in one simple text. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : Oh. So you're ta-By the way, 
you're ... But you're talking about the CCP. Yeah. That's, that, that I want. But I'm 
talking about in the election fraud. Do you think there's a RICO case to build there? 
And do you think in the election fraud, you need a special prosecutor? 
Rudy Giuliani: Absolutely. I mean, all the-all 
these guys that they're investigating have been, uh, shmeer in the Democratic Party for 
years. I mean .... (laugh) Including, including, uh, some people, you know, very, very 
close to the administration. You, [00:47:00] you, you think this was a, like just an 
accident. This has been going on for four or five years. This whole plan. Uh, it was 
actually practiced before. Uh, a lot more is gonna coming [inaudible 00:47:10] 
Stephen K. Bann ... : So you think there's a ... You 
think on the election frau-You think just last ... You think, on the election fraud 
side, there's no doubt in your prosecutorial mind-
Rudy Giuliani: Go, go up high. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : that you have a RICO case 
that needs a special prosecutor assigned by the-
Rudy Giuliani: Yes, sir. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : ... Justice Department at the 
direction of the president of the United States to sort this out? 
Rudy Giuliani: Absolutely. I mean, this, this  is gonna go to the heart of the Democratic Party. This [00:47:30] was not a, an 
accident. This was well thought out. It was well planned. It's gonna become 
international in scope. Uh, and it's a very, very comp-that is actually a much more 
complex case than the Biden case. The Biden case, I, I told you, I could get an 
indictment in that case in a month or two. And I, I'd be more than happy to prosecute 
it in front of any jury. I have no fear about winning that case. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : 
Rudy Giuliani: 
It's more of an investigation. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : 
volunteering [00:48:00] for stuff, Rudy. 
Rudy Giuliani: 
Stephen K. Bann ... : 
Rudy Giuliani: 
been, I haven't-
Stephen K. Bann ... : 
(laughs) Stop-
The election case messed up. And 
S-stop volun- stop volun- stop 
I wanna do it. 
No. Ok-okay. 
I wanna do it. But I haven't 
We gonna give your social media. 
Rudy Giuliani: been in front of a jury in 
years. I used to be, I used to be okay in front of a jury. Just okay. They don't have 
to be afraid of me. I'm just a country lawyer. 
Stephen K. Bann ... : Mayor Giuliani, you're an 
American hero. More importantly, you're a War Room, you're War Room: Pandemic's man of 
the year for 2020. Thank you for joining our first show at 2021. Really honored and 
appreciated. 
(singing) 