1. The conclusions in the Allied Security Operations Group (ASOG) Antrim Michigan Forensics 
Report (the ASOG Report) are suspect because they describe voting products and software 
versions that Antrim County does not use and otherwise rely on thin or mischaracterized 
evidence. 
a. Software Version. The ASOG report inaccurately describes the operating system, 
antivirus, and security updates (i.e., WSUS version) for the Antrim County voting system 
as being out of date. However, Antrim County uses Dominion Voting System's (DVS) 
Democracy Suite (D-Suite) 5.5 voting system1 as it was certified by the United States 
(U.S.) Election Assistance Commission (EAC) on September 14, 2018. 2 The D-Suite 5.5 
system was up to date for the version certified by the EAC. 
b. Adjudication Claims. The ASOG report claims that there was an issue with the 
adjudication application software in EMS are a red herring. Antrim County does not use 
the adjudication software application in question, and does not have compatible 
systems. 
c. Forensic Logs. The ASOG report also claims impropriety due to a lack of adjudication 
forensic logs. However, because, as noted above, Antrim County does not use the 
adjudication software, the lack of related logs is expected. 
d. High Error Rate. The ASOG report suggests that scanned ballots that were designated, 
or alerted, for further review is evidence of an abnormally high "error rate." This is 
generalization is not supported. When hand-marked paper ballots are scanned by a 
machine, the machine will alert election officials to things like write-in voting, damaged 
ballots, overvotes, undervotes, and stray marks. The screenshots of logs and file settings 
shown in the ASOG report only appear to be evidence of situations where the machine 
performed the intended processes based on the configuration settings. 
e. Ranked Choice Voting. The ASOG report inaccurately suggests that Ranked Choice 
Voting may have been enabled on the D-Suite voting system. However, the version of 
the D-Suite voting system used by Antrim County (v. 5.5) does not support ranked 
choice voting. The ASOG report actually provides a screenshot of a different D-Suite 
version (v. 5.11). 
2. The ASOG report demonstrates key misunderstandings about the current voting system 
certification process to the US EAC's Voluntary Voting System Guidelines,3 and suggests some 
non-existent provisions within the Help America Vote Act. 
3. The conclusions in the ASOG report do not appear to be supported by the recent hand recount 
in Antrim County Michigan. Voters in Antrim County voted on paper ballots, and by court order 
those ballots were reviewed and recounted, by hand. Independent of the D-Suite voting 
system, the hand recount appears to have returned consistent results.4 
1 The D-Suite 5.5 voting system is comprised of multiple software, hardware, and firmware components. The back­
end computer server system, known as the Election Management System (EMS), is a suite of multiple independent 
software applications. Antrim County only uses a subset of the EMS software applications. 
2 https://www.eac.gov/sites/default/files/voting_system/files/DSuite55_CertConf_Scope%28FINAL%29.pdf (last 
accessed on December 15, 2020) 
3 https://www.eac.gov/sites/default/files/eac_assets/1/28/VVSG.1.0_Volume_1.PDF (last accessed on December 
15, 2020) 
4 Hendrickson, Clara and Paul Egan, "Antrim County hand tally affirms certified election results." Detroit Free Press. 
Dec. 17, 2020. 