1 
2 
3 
4 
5 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE 
6 JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL, 
7 U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
8 WASHINGTON, D.C. 
9 
10 
11 
12 INTERVIEW OF: GEORGE AMOS TENNEY 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 Wednesday, July 13, 2022 
Washington, D.C. 
The interview in the above matter was held via Webex, commencing at 3:58 p.m. 1  1 Appearances: 
2 
3 
4 For the SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE 
5 THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL: 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT 
INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
11 For GEORGE AMOS TENNEY: 
12 
13 JAMES BARLOW LOGGINS, ASSISTANT FEDERAL PUBLIC DEFENDER 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 2  1 
2 - Well, why don't we go on the record at 3:58. 
Good afternoon. This is a transcribed interview of Mr. George Amos Tenney, 111, 
3 conducted by the House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the 
4 United States Capitol, pursuant to House Resolution 503. 
5 At this time, I'd ask the witness to please state your full name and spell your last 
6 name for the record. 
7 Mr. Tenney. George Amos Tenney, 111, T-e-n-n-e-y. 
8 - Thank you very much. 
9 So this is going to be a staff-led interview. My name is-. I'm an 
10 investigative counsel with the select committee. At the time, I don't see any other 3 
11 select committee investigators on the Webex or any members on the Webex. If anyone 
12 joins, I will announce them. And members are, of course, free to ask questions, as well 
13 as staff. 
14 So, at this time, I would ask that counsel please state your name for the record. 
15 Mr. Loggins. My name is James Barlow Loggins, assistant Federal public 
16 defender. 
17 
18 
19 
20 - I'm sorry. Can you spell your last name for the record? 
Mr. Loggins. L-o-g-g-i-n-s. 
- Thank you very much, Mr. Loggins. 
So there is an official reporter transcribing the record of this interview. Please 
21 wait until each question is completed before you begin your response, and I'll try to wait 
22 until your response is complete before I ask the next question. 
23 It's just hard for the stenographers over virtual calls to hear cross talk, so we'll do 
24 our best to not talk over one another. 
25 The stenographers also cannot record nonverbal responses, such as shaking your  4 
1 head, so it is important that you answer each question with an audible, verbal response, 
2 Mr. Tenney. 
3 And we ask that you provide complete answers based on your best recollection. 
4 If the question is not clear, just ask me for clarification, or ask --if anybody else asks a 
5 question, ask them for clarification. If you do not know the answer, please simply say 
6 so. 
7 And just a couple of important things to note for this interview. First, it is 
8 important that you understand that this interview is voluntary. If at any time you would 
9 like to stop speaking with us, that is your choice. 
10 Similarly, if at any point you need to discuss something with Mr. Loggins in private, 
11 just let me know. We'll take a break so that you can have that conversation, you know, 
12 mute, go off video, and you guys can talk. 
13 Second, this interview is not under oath, but, because this is a formal 
14 congressional investigation, you are obligated under Federal law to tell the truth, the 
15 same as if you were speaking with the FBI or DOJ. And it is unlawful to deliberately 
16 provide false information to Congress. For this interview, providing false information 
17 could result in criminal penalties for false statements. 
18 Do you understand, Mr. Tenney? 
19 Mr. Tenney. Yes. 
20 - Thank you. 
21 Third, you are not obligated to keep the fact of this interview and what we discuss 
22 confidential. You are free to tell whomever you wish that you met with us, including the 
23 prosecutor or judge on your case, or you can tell no one at all. That is your decision. 
24 Fourth, the select committee is separate and independent from the Department 
25 of Justice. We have no involvement with the prosecutions, and the DOJ is not a partner  5 
1 with the select committee in its investigation. 
2 The select committee also is not a party to your criminal case. It is not agreeing 
3 to submit anything on your behalf to the judge, nor can we make any representation 
4 whether, if you tell the judge that you met with us, that the judge would be more 
5 favorable to you during sentencing. 
6 Fifth, we have agreed with your attorney not to share the substance of what you 
7 say with DOJ prior to your sentencing, but there are two possible exceptions. If you told 
8 us about evidence of a crime that we thought law enforcement was unaware of, or if we 
9 had reason to believe you lied during this interview, then we would be obligated to tell 
10 DOJ or another appropriate law enforcement agency about that. 
11 And, if you do tell the judge that you met with us, please understand that it may 
12 prompt questions from the judge about what you said and whether it is consistent with 
13 your prior statements and acceptance of responsibility. And, if the judge starts asking 
14 questions, we might get asked to respond and divulge what you said. 
15 And, logistically, like I said a little earlier, just let us --let me know if you need any 
16 breaks for comfort or if you would like to speak with Mr. Loggins or for any other reason. 
17 We're happy to accommodate that. 
18 So --and, again, if you don't understand a question, which happens from time to 
19 time, just let me know, and I'm happy to rephrase. 
20 And, with that, I'll get in some background questions. 
21 Mr. Loggins. I have one question before you start questioning. 
22 - Sure. 
23 Mr. Loggins. You mentioned it --and I understand completely --that he 
24 is --would be subject to a crime for lying to the committee, but lying to the committee 
25 does not mean a difference of opinion about an event, correct?  6 
1 - Correct. You know, and we can talk about --
2 Mr. Loggins. The scope. The scope. I'm sorry. What about the scope of the 
3 event, where, if somebody said "injured" and somebody said "pushed" or somebody said 
4 "purposeful" or --that's not lying under this context, right? 
5 - Yeah, I understand. So that is not lying in this context. And we can 
6 talk more off the record if you want, but usually it would be, you know, if I ask a question 
7 that comes from the statement of offense, and Mr. Tenney told me an opposite answer 
8 from the statement of offense. 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 Mr. Loggins. I understand that. I agree. Thank you, sir. 
- All right? Great. 
Q 
A 
Q 
A EXAMINATION 
So, Mr. Tenney, why don't you tell me where you are currently living. 
Currently living? 
Yes, sir. 
Piedmont, South Carolina. I live in a house with my fiancee and two 
17 children and her child from her past relationship. 
18 
19 
20 
21 Q 
A 
Q 
A Well, congratulations on the engagement. 
Thank you. 
Have you lived in Piedmont your whole life? 
No. I originally grew up in Palm Beach, Florida, moved to Anderson, South 
22 Carolina, when I was probably eight or nine. I pretty much stayed in Anderson, South 
23 Carolina, until after college. And then I traveled the U.S. as an executive chef, opening 
24 up country clubs as a job, came back to South Carolina, and that's pretty much where I've 
25 been.  1 
2 Q 
A So do you have a --is your educational background in culinary arts? 
No. I actually went for biological sciences and never really went anywhere 
3 with that, but always had a job in the kitchen and worked into being a chef, so I just kind 
4 of ran with it. 
5 Q Biology isn't that far from cooking, and you're doing something I once 7 
6 thought about doing, so, you know, I'm kind of jealous. But, besides --are you currently 
7 a chef? 
8 
9 
10 
11 A 
Q 
A 
Q Currently working at a restaurant, running, operating a restaurant, yes, sir. 
Great. And that's in Piedmont, as well? 
Yes. 
Great. Thank you. 
12 So, getting into a little bit more of the politics part of this, can you describe how 
13 politically engaged you were during President Trump's first term? 
14 A Well, originally, previously, I, you know, never really was much engaged with 
15 politics. Then, obviously, when Trump got in, you know, you started hearing all this 
16 stuff, whether it was TV, Facebook, on line, whatever it was, about, you know, country 
17 changing or losing your country, losing your rights, you know, losing certain things, you 
18 know, corruptness, and, you know, all these certain things that was being thrown around 
19 and lies and this and that. So I ended up getting more involved and, you know, looking 
20 at it and, you know, paying attention to it more during all that, during Trump's time. 
21 So, yeah, I guess that's pretty much when it all kind of started. I --you know, 
22 before then, I never really was involved in anything. 
23 Q All right. So how did the messaging about the country changing, about 
24 losing rights, how did that make you feel? 
25 A Well, originally, it was scary. You know, it's --some things, you know,  8 
1 might make you angry at times. But more than that, you know, it was more of 
2 frightening about, you know, my kids and, you know, things you're hearing about what 
3 they were doing in schools and --you know, and just --it was more frightening than 
4 anything, I guess. 
5 Q And do you remember specifics --specific claims about the country changing 
6 that really frightened you? 
7 A Yeah. You know, obviously gun rights has always been going on since. 
8 You know, obviously, he claimed they're trying to take guns away and this and that. 
9 Within the schools and stuff, you know, I guess they were throwing around, you 
10 know, certain things were made to be taught to kids, or --you know, or certain political 
11 views were being pushed into schools, and ethnic views were being pushed into schools, 
12 teaching kids at young ages. You know, I guess I really don't have --off the top of my 
13 head right now, without really thinking about it, I guess I don't have too much, but --
14 
15 Q 
A Well, that's okay. That's very helpful. 
Getting on the news over and over and, you know, corruptness, and --you 
16 know, from different countries, different people in politics, and, you know, just --that the 
17 interest of the country wasn't in the first hand, I guess. 
18 
19 Q 
A All right. So the America First message, the idea that --
Yeah. The border stuff, and --you know, and --yeah. Just --yeah. Just 
20 everything kind of involved in one big --one big thing. 
21 Q And, before President Trump started running or was elected, do you 
22 remember having any of that sense that you were losing the country or that the country 
23 was going the wrong direction? 
24 
25 A 
Q No, sir, never. 
Okay. So, really, President Trump's message resonated with you and  1 motivated you to be engaged in politics? 
2 
3 
4 place. A 
Q Yes, correct. 
Thank you. And I think you mentioned you were hearing this all over the 
5 What was your, like, primary source of information about politics? 
6 A Well, I mean, FOX. FOX was, I guess, the main thing you kept seeing, 
7 whether it was Hannity or, you know, what those guys on FOX --obviously Facebook was 
8 big. You know, who isn't on Facebook every other day? 
9 You know, I had friends that would share podcasts with me, certain different 
10 podcasts, stuff like that. 
11 That was the majority of it really. 
12 
13 Q 
A Did you have a Twitter account? 
No, sir. 
14 Q Okay. Any other social media platforms where you got political news, like 
15 Reddit or Telegram, Signal, anything like that? 
16 
17 A 
Q No. 
Okay. Did you follow President Trump on Facebook? 
18 If that's how you would describe it, I'm --as you can tell, I'm not a good Face book 
19 user. 9 
20 A I don't think it was President Trump, actual page. I'm not even sure if there 
21 was one of those, but, yes, there was probably some sort of political pages or the 
22 Republican this, or something, something on Face book that I would see or follow, yes. 
23 Q Okay. And do you remember if --getting a lot of President Trump's 
24 messages through --directly through Facebook, whether it was a friend sharing it, or from 
25 one of his pages?  1 
2 A 
Q Yeah. Definitely, certainly. 
Great. And, also, I think you described some of the information you were 
3 getting. You heard a lot about lies. Were you talking about what you were hearing 
4 were lies, or you were hearing about lies? 
5 A Both. You know, obviously from where my mind set was, you know, if it 10 
6 was --you know, at the time, you know, you know, a Democratic or a different politician 
7 or something like that saying stuff, you know, you felt like you couldn't believe anything. 
8 And then, you know, when you'd be shown or see things about --you know, 
9 coming from Trump's side or Trump or, you know, and that they were --they were lying 
10 to us, or, you know, and stuff about election, you know, and all --it was just both of them, 
11 honestly. Yes. We were reading about what lies were, and then things we were 
12 reading, you know, we're like, well, heck, that could be a lie, too, and --so I guess it was 
13 both. 
14 Q Great. And so you mentioned the Presidential election. So you predicted 
15 my next question, which was: Did you believe that the 2020 election had been stolen 
16 from former President Trump? 
17 
18 
19 A 
Q 
A I did at the time, yes. 
Okay. And do you remember when you started believing that? 
Yeah. I guess it was shortly after the election happened, and you started 
20 hearing these things from Trump's attorney and Trump and that they had these --the 
21 so-called proof from these machines and that supposedly these machines were used in 
22 other countries to rig elections, and it was supposably just these certain States that were 
23 allowed these certain machines. And, you know, just all the stuff you kept hearing on 
24 the news every day, and --you know, about the --and then the stupid --about the 
25 dumping at 2 a.m., you know, I guess the day after. You know, just all the same stuff  1 that circulated that everybody was hearing, I guess. 
2 
3 Q 
A And Trump's attorney, was that Rudy Giuliani? 
No. No. Yeah, obviously, he had a lot to say, too, but, no. It was 
4 something --the lady? 
5 
6 
7 Q 
A 
Q 
8 Mitchell? 
9 
10 A 
Q Sidney --Sidney Powell? 
Yes. Yes. That's it. Yeah. 
Do you remember hearing any messaging from a Jenna Ellis or a Cleta 
The Jenna Ellis sounds familiar, but I can't recall anything particularly, no. 
That's fine. 
11 So is it fair to say that you started believing the election was stolen because of 
12 information you were receiving from President Trump? 11 
13 
14 A 
Q Yes. Definitely, yeah. I mean, that's pretty much how it all started, yeah. 
Okay. Do you remember hearing any claims from President Trump, even 
15 before the election happened, that there was going to be a lot of fraud, that it could be 
16 stolen, or anything like that? 
17 A The only thing that rings right to me when you say that, I guess, in one of his 
18 rallies or something like that, Trump had said this is going to be the most dishonest or 
19 most rigged or something election like that, and obviously that was, like, planting the 
20 original seed. And then obviously the night of is when it really took off. 
21 
22 
23 Q So it just sounds like President Trump's message --
- Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Loggins. Did you say anything? 
Mr. Loggins. Trump sold that story for 2 years before the election. Unless you 
24 were deaf or didn't own a TV, you heard it. 
25 - Mr. Loggins, that was my next question.  12 
Would you say that --
Mr. Loggins. I thought --
- I'm sorry. 
BY-1 
2 
3 
4 
5 Q Mr. Tenney, Mr. Loggins sort of predicted my next question. You guys are 
6 good at this. I should invite you in and start asking some questions. 
7 But, Mr. Tenney, would you say that --you mentioned the seed being sowed. 
8 Was President Trump the reason you started to doubt the election even before it 
9 happened, then? 
10 A Oh, yeah. I mean, that's pretty much, you know, where it was coming from 
11 and who we felt like, you know, was --the info we could listen to, or --you know, yeah. 
12 It was just all the same --caught up in the same mess, you know? 
13 Q All right. And you trusted President Trump at the time, that he was telling 
14 you the truth about the election, that he was giving you good information about the 
15 election? 
16 A Between him and then the so-called proof and so-called, you know, facts 
17 that they had that everybody was throwing around, yes, we thought that was believable, 
18 yes. 
19 Q Great. Thank you. 
20 Did you then participate in any activities after the election and before January 6th 
21 related to, you know, protesting alleged voter fraud, any "stop the steal" organization 
22 events, anything like that? 
23 
24 A 
Q No, nothing at all. 
Okay. Did you make any political donations after the election to 
25 President Trump?  1 
2 A 
Q No. 
Thank you. 
3 Just for the record, then, you did not attend either the rally in Washington, D.C., 
4 on November 14th or December 12th for President Trump in Washington, D.C.? 
5 
6 A 
Q No, sir. 
Great. Thank you so much. 
7 So, then, talking about January 6th rally itself, do you remember when you first 
8 heard about the rally? 
9 A I'm not exactly sure. I'd say it was --starts swirling around in December, I 13 
10 guess, or maybe November at the earliest. Again, this was something on Facebook that 
11 some friends had shared or shown or talked about, and --I can't tell you an exact time. 
12 I'm sorry. 
13 Q That's okay. 
14 Do you remember a tweet --and, knowing you didn't have a Twitter, I know it was 
15 shared on Facebook by former President Trump on December 19th that invited or called 
16 on people to come to Washington, D.C., for a, quote/unquote, "wild protest"? 
17 A Oh, yeah. Yeah. It's --January 6th something, it's going to be wild, yeah. 
18 Of course. We all saw that. 
19 Q Yeah. And did that have any impact on your decision to come to 
20 Washington, D.C.? 
21 A No. At the time, we didn't think of it as the wild part being, like, you know, 
22 bad or negative. You know, it was more of like a camaraderie, come together wild 
23 feeling than it was a, you know, mad wild, I guess. 
24 Q Did you decide to come to Washington, D.C., because of that tweet, or had 
25 you already decided you were coming to Washington, D.C.?  1 A That --before that tweet or that tweet had nothing to do with it honestly. 
2 It was more of a last-minute thing. You know, we talked about it, like I said, a month 
3 before, and, you know, questions back and forth whether we were going to go or not. 
4 And the only reason why I did end up going was because a friend of mine on Facebook 
5 ran a little podcast page and wanted to go and do, like, little one-on-one interviews and 
6 stuff like that with folks at the rally. 
7 Q Okay. And what --who was that friend? 
8 
9 
10 A 
Q 
A Chloe Barnhill, or -­
Can you spell that? 
She's married now. I can't really know what her last name is. It's 
11 C-h-I-o-e, B-a-r-n-h-i-I-1. Andrews is her married name --
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 Mr. Loggins. Yeah. 
Mr. Tenney. --now, A-n-d-r-e-w-s. 
Mr. Loggins. Yep. 
BY-: 
Q Thank you so much, Mr. Tenney. 
So you mentioned that everybody had seen that December 19th tweet or on 14 
18 Facebook. Were you talking about it a lot with your friends, or you were just seeing a lot 
19 of these posts on social media about it? 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A No. Never really talked about it at all. Just saw it over and over again. 
Okay. You saw it just getting reposted and reposted? 
Yes, sir. 
All right. So, then, why did you decide to come to Washington, D.C.? 
Well, originally, it was 100 percent because --to help Chloe with her podcast 
25 and interviewing folks. And she went and bought these, you know, special little cameras  15 
1 and microphones, and I was in charge of the camera and microphone. And we were 
2 going to take notes of just, you know, people's reactions of the rally. And we were going 
3 to try to listen to Trump's speech while we were there and get --you know, take notes of 
4 stuff from that. 
5 But her purpose was because she wanted to run --her podcast was like a 
6 politically facts-only type podcast, you know, so she wanted to get, I guess, interviews 
7 and info to share on her page. 
8 
9 Q 
A And is that podcast The PowerHouse Patriot? 
Yes, sir. 
10 Q Did you have any role besides helping your friend, Chloe, on January 6th in 
11 that podcast? 
12 A No. The only --the only --like I said, the only role that I ever had, one time 
13 she wanted me to --she made me an ad min because one --several times during her 
14 videos and podcasts, other folks would get on and start bashing and lashing out and 
15 cussing and name calling and, you know, and just --and she just basically said: George, 
16 if you see any of that, just delete them off the page or block them out of the page. 
17 Outside of those, a few, couple times where I did that during her podcast, my only 
18 thing was to stand there and hold some cameras and hold the microphone for her. 
19 Q Got it. Thank you. 
20 So did you also come to Washington, D.C., on January 6th to show your support 
21 for President Trump? 
22 
23 
24 A 
Q 
A Yes, sir. 
And why did you want to do that? 
Again, it felt more like a, you know, coming together as one to show, you 
25 know, how strong we felt about the things we were being told and lied to about. You  16 
1 know, we --I really thought at the time, you know, the things he was saying were true 
2 and things that we knew to be worried about and things that were, you know, being 
3 pushed to the forefront --you know, I thought that --you know, at the time, I did think, 
4 you know, we were going to lose rights and we were going to lose, you know, freedoms, 
5 and we were going to lose certain things, you know. 
6 So it was more of a show that, you know, it's a whole, you know, group within the 
7 Nation that feels the same way. And it was never a come to be angry and come to, you 
8 know, be up in arms or nothing like that. 
9 Q Were you aware in advance that Congress was voting to certify the election 
10 for Joe Biden on January 6th? 
11 
12 A 
Q Yes. 
And was it your hope that this rally would somehow stop the certification of 
13 the vote for Joe Biden? 
14 A No. The only thing that ever crossed any of our minds --well, the folks that 
15 I was around --was more of like a show of support or show of, you know, that --I guess, 
16 at the time, Trump was saying: Oh, it's all up to Mike Pence. You know, it's --he's the 
17 final decision or the final vote, or whatever it was at the time. I can't remember how it 
18 was worded or the process or everything, but --you know, so I guess our thought was to 
19 show that we --we believe it, too. We'll stand up with it, too. You know, we'll back 
20 you up, too. You know, don't be scared to vote the right way, don't --you know, 
21 because that's basically what we were being told with Trump and everything, is Pence 
22 needs to vote this certain way for it to, you know, happen right and to protect certain 
23 things. 
24 And I guess that's --that's what it was, more of a --you know, help --help to make 
25 right decision, I guess. It wasn't to stop anything or push anything, no.  17 
1 Q But it sounds like what you wanted was for Vice President Pence to stop the 
2 certification of the vote for Joe Bi den? 
3 A Well, yeah. I guess that was the only last hope that, you know, was being 
4 thrown around by Trump, and everybody was --you know, because all the other 
5 stuff --obviously, now I know even more. All the other stuff in the Supreme Courts or, 
6 you know, the fraud and all this stuff was a bunch of crap. So the last hope, I guess, was 
7 for Pence to vote a certain way. 
8 Q And so is it fair to say, then, that you hoped, after January 6th, after Vice 
9 President Pence didn't certify the vote for Joe Biden, that President Trump would remain 
10 in as President of the United States? 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 A 
Q 
A 
Q Safe to say that if he did vote that way? 
Yeah. That was your hope, yeah. 
Yes. Yes. Yes. 
Yeah. You and probably --or sorry. Let me rephrase. 
You wanted to show your support. You wanted to be there to support 
16 Mike Pence and doing what was necessary to keep President Trump as President that --
17 
18 
19 A 
Q Yes. At that time, yes. 
Thank you very much. 
So I want to go over a couple of messages that --these come from your statement 
20 of facts that were --I think you sent on Face book before January 6th. This is probably 
21 when you were planning to go. 
22 So it looks like --and I think you ask Chloe this on December 14th: Where and 
23 how do I get involved or a part of one of these patriot revolution groups, like Proud Boys, 
24 or any of the other American patriot militias? 
25 What was your interest in these militia groups or these revolutionary groups?  18 
1 A Well, at that time, you know --at that time and before that, I really knew 
2 nothing about it, never really heard anything about them. They really weren't being 
3 talked about at all. And, when I had first heard about them, I really thought it was true, 
4 like, patriot groups, standing up for rights, standing up for Constitution, standing up for 
5 freedoms. 
6 I thought they were, like, normal ex-military veterans or, you know --well, I really 
7 don't know how to explain it back then, but now I just see they're a bunch of, you know, 
8 crazy, half lunatic, you know, bullies. And, you know, at that time, it was more of a --I 
9 thought it really was just a group to be involved in to stand up for not losing our rights or 
10 not losing freedoms, and, you know --
11 
12 
13 
14 Q 
A 
Q 
A And do you remember where you got that impression of these groups? 
About how I feel about them now? 
No. Sorry. How you felt about them at the time. 
Oh, like I said, the very first time I ever heard about anything, I think it was a 
15 rally. Somebody --it might have been Joe Biden and Trump at a rally, and somebody 
16 said to denounce somebody. And then --and they said something about: We'll 
17 denounce them if you denounce the Proud Boys, or whoever it was. 
18 And that was honestly the first time I had ever heard about whoever these were. 
19 And then obviously, if you just google or anything like that, the only thing you ever see is 
20 a patriot group or patriot supporters or, you know, stand up for the Constitution, and, 
21 you know --and you don't really see what they're all about. 
22 So, at that time, it was all about just wanting to, again, be more of a helpful side or 
23 a supportive side of, you know, scared to lose things, or, you know, scared to --what the 
24 future may bring, you know. 
25 Heck, there was things going around that, you know, China was involved and, you  19 
1 know, all these different countries were involved to take over America secretly, and --you 
2 know, so it was more of just stuff like that, of a fear and wanting to stick up for our own 
3 country and freedoms. 
4 Q So it sounds like you heard during a Presidential debate when 
5 President Trump --in response to the question that you remember, President Trump said 
6 to the Proud Boys: Stand back and stand by. 
7 And did you then go --is that what prompted you to go searching for who the 
8 Proud Boys were? 
9 
10 A 
Q Yes. Who they were and what --yes. 
And did you --around December 14th, when you sent this message, were 
11 you seeing more posts about the Proud Boys, more messaging from the Proud Boys? 
12 What about, at that time, made you list the Proud Boys specifically? 
13 A Because that was the only one I've heard of. No, I never really saw 
14 anything or heard anything or knew anything about it. It was really just the only ones I 
15 heard of. 
16 Q Were you seeing posts in general, though, from militia groups or 
17 revolutionary groups talking about stopping the steal or January 6th or anything like that? 
18 A Not from any of those groups, no. I did see a lot of posts about "stop the 
19 steal," but it was never from any of those groups or anything, no. 
20 
21 Q 
A All right. Did you ever end up joining one of those groups? 
No, definitely not. Like I said, I literally searched that one time, googled 
22 that one time, and got nowhere, had no information, had nothing, and that was basically 
23 the end of it. 
Q Understood. 24 
25 So, then, on December 27th, in somewhat of a similar vein, you wrote on  20 
1 Facebook that, quote: I heard over SOOK armed militia patriots will be in D.C. by the 4th 
2 and will start early waiting for the rest of us on the 6th. They already predict a million 
3 people will be in D.C. on the 6th. 
4 Do you remember where you heard of that information about armed militia 
5 patriots being in Washington, D.C.? 
6 
7 
8 A Yes. That was a podcast. What was his name? 
The guy I sent you. 
Simon. Simon something. Some British guy was one of the podcasts I used to 
9 get sent and watched every now and then. And he was talking about, you know, 
10 basically what you just said and, you know, and that truckers were getting involved, and 
11 all these other folks are getting involved days before and were going to be there days 
12 before. 
13 Q Did you get any reaction to this --if this were a post on Face book, did you 
14 get any reaction to it? 
15 A That was a message I had sent to somebody. It was never a post, post for 
16 public to see, but no. I think the response to that was, We don't really know what's 
17 going on. You know, we're not worried about before or after, you know, just how we 
18 were going to get there and where we were going to sleep basically. 
19 Q All right. What was your reaction to hearing this news about armed militia 
20 groups being in Washington, D.C., for January 6th? 
21 A I don't think I had a major reaction. Yeah, I --I don't think I had a --you 
22 know, a good or bad reaction. I think it was just, like, something that was thrown out 
23 there, whether we really believed it or not, and --yeah, I don't recall having a reaction 
24 one way or another. 
25 Q Well, what did you think that those militia patriots would be doing in  21 
1 Washington, D.C., if they did show up? 
2 A I don't know. Just being there before, part of the protests or part of the 
3 rally. 
4 Q Did it make you think that there might be violence on January 6th because 
5 they mentioned them being armed? 
6 A Yeah, I guess at one point. It wasn't, like, violent in the masses or violence 
7 in --you know, in a certain way. It was more of the fact that we had thought, you know, 
8 just more of just safety for ourselves if there was something that broke out, you know, 
9 because, all year, we'd been seeing all these riots and protests around the country, and, 
10 you know, what's a so-called protest would turn into a crazy riot and --you know, 
11 and --so it was more of, if we're ever going to be there, you know, it was more out of 
12 safety for ourselves and, you know, how --if something does happen, you know, what's 
13 the --what's the plan we can do to get out, or what what's the plan we do to get away or 
14 keep ourselves safe and stuff like that. 
15 Q Did that thought make you bring anything with you to Washington, D.C., you 
16 know, any sort of self-defense weapons, weapons, body armor, anything like that? 
17 A The people that were in the car that rode with us, we each had our pistol, 
18 and we each had our concealed weapons permits. Those pistols stayed in the car the 
19 whole time, never came in the hotel room, never went with us anywhere else in the city. 
20 But, yes, like I said, that was for personal protection if it --if it had to be. 
21 Q But you didn't bring --and we'll get to this, but you didn't bring them with 
22 you to the Ellipse or to the Capitol? 
23 
24 A 
Q No, no, no. 
Okay. Did you expect --back to these militia, did you expect that these 
25 militia would do something to help President Trump stay in power?  22 
1 A No. I guess it goes --refers back to the whole January 6th thing about 
2 everybody being there. You know, it was more of a --the showing of --that it's a 
3 nationwide concern and, you know, a --more than just a few here and there that think 
4 that something's going on. You know, I guess it was more of a feeling of they're there to 
5 show the same concern as the rest of us. 
6 Q And do you --if you can remember, the podcast, do you remember the 
7 context in which the podcast was talking about these militia members coming to 
8 Washington, D.C.? Was the podcast talking about stopping the steal, or was the podcast 
9 talking about President Trump's speech at the rally or anything like that? 
10 A No. Obviously, it's hard to go back, because now I see and see, you know, 
11 the truth and the light and, you know, feel differently about a lot of things now. But, at 
12 that time, this certain podcast guy, the Simon guy, apparently he was an ex-military guy. 
13 And, you know, he was always the one talking about, you know, the China --China being 
14 involved in getting these certain machines and, you know, certain lies of corruption with 
15 Ukraine and different countries. And this was all part of a bigger plan and, you know, it 
16 was never a "stop the steal." It was always that this is, like, a crazier, bigger plan of 
17 killing America or, you know, taking over America basically. 
18 
19 Q 
A Part of that bigger plan, was that like a QAnon thing? 
I don't --I don't know. I never --I obviously know what QAnon is, sort of. 
20 I never really got involved with that or knew about that. But I guess, if some of those 
21 things fell into that QAnon thing, I --yeah. I can't tell you what --what exactly QAnon 
22 was all about, because I never really got involved with that side of it. But it was a 
23 certain --just a certain thing. 
24 Oh, the Pizzagate thing was something that was supposedly involved in it, and, 
25 you know, there was all these just politicians that were just corrupt and evil, and it was all  23 
1 the part of this big group that was there to have --you know, control the masses and 
2 control America, and it was stuff like that, I guess. 
3 Q So the bigger plan that, I guess, it sounds like was that maybe 
4 President Trump and these militia groups on January 6th were protecting Americans from 
5 something bad that was going to happen? Does that sound right? 
6 
7 
8 A 
Q 
A Yeah. Yes. Yes. 
Okay. So sort of President Trump as a savior kind of figure, then? 
Yeah, exactly. Something that just popped into my head from that same 
9 podcast, something about the Vatican, you know, and that they were doing some black 
10 ops stuff and from all this child pedophilia ring in the Vatican, and politicians involved 
11 here, and America, you know, corruptness involved. You know, it was just crazy, a 
12 whole bunch of stuff that, you know, was part of the whole picture of crippling America, I 
13 guess. 
14 So, yeah. It made like Trump was bringing it all to light, and Trump was using all 
15 his resources to save and protect, you know --you know, what we all felt that true 
16 America was. 
17 Q Thank you very much, Mr. Tenney. 
18 - And not to go on for too long about this podcast. 
19 Mr. Loggins, maybe if you do have the full name of it, you could just email it to me 
20 where there --
21 Mr. Loggins. --of course, I --I'll be happy to mail it to you. 
22 - Great. No rush. And thank you. 
23 BY-: 
24 Q And then, Mr. Tenney, do you remember --you said a friend gave you this 
25 podcast. When did you start listening to this podcast?  24 
1 A It was later on, too. It was October, November, December, something 
2 like --it was not very long, because then we come --because even us, after listening to 
3 this guy maybe 10 times and trying, you know, to really look into the things he was 
4 saying, they were pretty, you know, bizarre at times and, like, that whole Vatican thing 
5 and, like, you know, the whole China thing. 
6 And it was --even we felt it was so bizarre, we tried to find facts and facts and 
7 facts, and we've come to find out this guy supposably used those fears being pumped in 
8 America to make money doing podcasts, and --you know, and --so it was all monetary 
9 for him, and it was all about him just making money, whatever lie he could throw out 
10 there for him to make more money, get more views, make more money, you know? So 
11 we ended up not following this podcast for very long even ourselves. 
12 Q So it sounds like you think he might have played on your emotions for his 
13 own monetary benefit? 
14 
15 
16 
17 A 
Q For --for certainly, yes. Yeah. 
Thank you. 
So another --why don't we move on to another message. 
On December 28th, you sent a Facebook message that stated, quote: We need 
18 to talk about a trip to D.C. You all still going? I've been digging deep. Wanting to 
19 know exactly the whats, whens, hows, and wheres, why are we there, what are we 
20 doing? It's starting to look like we may siege the Capitol Building and Congress if the 
21 electoral votes don't go right. 
22 Then later: The people I am going with, forming plans for every scenario. 
23 So, first off, where did you get that information on December 28th about the 
24 possibility of sieging the Capitol? 
25 A That podcast guy, Simon. And, when I say, like, "we," I didn't mean, like, us  25 
1 personally. It was more like a Republican group or the standing up for the, you know, 
2 freedoms and Constitution groups, or, you know, it wasn't us. It was a group as a whole. 
3 It wasn't us personally and stuff like that. 
4 Q All right. And "if the electoral votes don't go right," does that mean if the 
5 certification of the vote wasn't stopped? 
6 
7 A 
Q Correct. 
Okay. So it --I guess, then, you did --before you got to Washington, D.C., 
8 on January 6th, the idea was already in your head that some amorphous group, or, as you 
9 said, Republicans or whoever, might be --end up storming the Capitol. Is that true? 
10 A At the time, I had --storming the Capitol and what really happened, no, was 
11 not a thought in my head. I guess I thought it was more of a --I don't --I can't even 
12 really tell you, you know, what I meant, but what I heard, that storming or taking 
13 over --you know, I know the word "siege" was used, but that's because that's what was 
14 said. Even at the time, I didn't even 100 percent concept what that was really meaning. 
15 No, it was more of a --I thought it was going to be like a protest, or whether it was 
16 standing around it or being in certain areas. I never thought it would be what it was, no. 
17 Q Did you think at all that groups might go into the Capitol to protest on 
18 January 6th? 
19 
20 
21 
22 A 
Q 
A 
Q I never thought like that, no, sir. 
Did you ever see a document called 1776 Returns? 
No, I did not. 
Okay. And then, at the end of that statement, you say: The people I'm 
23 going with, we are forming plans for every scenario. 
24 What did you mean by that? 
25 A So, again, that was like --like I mentioned earlier about what if a crazy riot  26 
1 did break out, or what if, you know, we felt unsafe, or what if we felt like, you know, 
2 things were going to go really, really wrong as far as the whole citywide --you know, we 
3 were talking about what if they shut the city down, what if they shut down the Metro, 
4 what if they shut down highways and bridges? You know, what if they shut everything 
5 down because of certain things happening? 
6 How are we going to get home? How are we going to get out of there? How 
7 are we going to get our cars? How are we --you know, so --you know, I know this 
8 sounds silly now, but it was: Are we going to park our car outside the city and walk all 
9 the way in, or are we going to, you know --are we going to be able to, you know, take a 
10 subway? Are we going to be able to, you know, walk certain roads or walk certain, you 
11 know, water lines, or walk certain whatever it was to be able to get in and out as far as 
12 just personal, you know, safety and back to our homes and back to our lives. 
13 Q And were you getting this information about the city closing down from the 
14 podcast, or from other social media sources, or anything else? 
15 A No. I guess that was just more of us overthinking what if --you know, 
16 what --our main thought was, you know, we're seeing all the riots happening. What if a 
17 riot broke out, or what if something happened between, you know, the police and a 
18 group or something like that? We didn't want to be mixed up in all that stuff or, you 
19 know, be in a gunfight or be in anything like that. So, if something were like that to 
20 happen, how would we get away the quickest? 
21 Q So you were concerned that this protest to --the protest of the certification 
22 of the vote would turn violent in one way or another, and it sounds like part of it, you 
23 envisioned there being a further demonstration either towards the Capitol if Joe Biden 
24 was certified as the President, right? 
25 A No. I --I didn't know anything about towards the Capitol. The only  27 
1 reason why we ended up going towards the Capitol was because that's what Trump was 
2 saying and what the word was going around right at that rally at his speech. 
3 
4 Q Okay. But --I appreciate that, and thank you. 
I'm just wondering, again, maybe you can explain that a little more about the 
5 siege the Capitol. I know you heard it on the podcast, but --
6 
7 A 
Q Yeah. I did hear stuff like that on the podcast, yes. 
But, in your mind, you didn't think siege the Capitol meant getting closer to 
8 the building? 
9 A I didn't --certainly didn't think it meant going in and destroying and looking 
10 for people and stuff like that, no, I didn't. 
11 Q So you had no plans ahead chime to march to the Capitol until you heard 
12 President Trump in his speech invite people to march to the Capitol and that he'd be 
13 walking down Pennsylvania Avenue with you? 
14 
15 
16 A Yeah, I did not have any plans like that beforehand, no. 
Q So we'll jump ahead a little bit here. 
How did you take President Trump's invitation to march to the Capitol? How did 
17 that make you feel? 
18 A At the time, it was more of a, like I said, standing up for the hope of keeping 
19 the country safe and the Constitution safe, and kids' lives, futures safe. And it was all, 
20 you know, led by the lies we were being told of --of, you know, people trying to take over 
21 America, I guess. 
22 
23 Q And you marched to the Capitol because President Trump told you to? 
A Yeah. I guess --yes. In his speech, he said: Make your ways to the 
24 Capitol. 
25 So that's basically where the whole crowd went after he was --his speech, yes.  1 Q Okay. And it was --you know, you just said protect our rights. So you 
2 thought, by marching to the Capitol at President Trump's invitation, you were doing 
3 something to protect the country, protect rights, protect your children? 
4 
5 A 
Q Exactly, yes. 
Thank you. And we'll get back into January 6th a little more in a second. 
6 have just one more message. 
7 On December 29th, you wrote a message saying you've been watching a 
8 podcast --I'm assuming this is probably the Simon podcast --and he says Pence is a 
9 traitor and will be betray the United States on the 6th. 
10 And then you --you encouraged a friend to join you saying: When it, the rally, 
11 something I believe will save our country, I don't care if I sleep in a car at this point. 
12 So, on December 29th, then, what did you think about Vice President Pence? 28 
13 A Oh, I guess all the way up until I had heard on that podcast that he was also 
14 in China's pocket, and come to find out he was a --you know, two-faced to Trump the 
15 whole time and, like, he was this, like, hidden --I don't know the name --rat, or some --I 
16 don't really know what you'd call --like he was, like, inserted in to be the Vice President 
17 with Trump to kind of keep an eye and, you know, stuff like that. 
18 I guess that's how it was portrayed when I watched that podcast or watched that 
19 interview at that time. But, up until then, I thought he was --had the same thoughts 
20 and feelings as Trump and the rest of us, and I thought he was great --a great man 
21 outside of that. And I guess that's why it was such a major surprise when it was 
22 portrayed to us that he's --he's more of a traitor and he's more of a backstabber and this 
23 and that. 
24 Q Did you hear from anybody else around this time, so before January 6th, 
25 anyone on social media or any of your friends talking about Vice President Pence being a  1 traitor? 
2 A No. Just --just --just little friends, Face book friends, and whoever was 
3 watching that podcast that I knew, but, no, it was very few. 
4 Q So I want to just jump ahead again. I'm sorry for doing this, but do you 
5 remember President Trump, during his speech on January 6th, talking about Vice 
6 President Pence and saying, "He doesn't have the courage to do what is necessary. 
7 We're hoping that he would have the courage to overturn the election"? 
8 A Yes. Yeah. That was --that's, I guess, why we felt that way, is because 
9 we --I remember him saying it's --it's up to Pence. Pence, do the right thing. I know 
10 you can. Yeah, and --yes. Yeah. 
11 Q And, up until January 6th, were you --do you remember President Trump 
12 tweeting or, you know, seeing on Facebook President Trump's tweets about Vice 
13 President Pence having the authority to overturn the election? 
14 A Yes. Again, like I said, that we felt like he was the last resort, because, 
15 before then, it was --I don't exactly remember, but it was, like: Oh, he could do 15th 
16 Amendment. 
17 
18 Or, before then, it was: Oh, he could do this. 
And then, before that, it was: Oh, well, if he could prove that it was, you know, 
19 corruption and, you know, fraud in the election, it was --and all them things kept falling 
20 through and falling through and falling through. 29 
21 So then it came down to, well, the only thing now left is for Pence to do this vote 
22 or whatever it was. 
23 Q And you mentioned that, up until you started hearing this, you thought Vice 
24 President Pence was doing a good job, you liked him a lot. So how did hearing this stuff 
25 about Pence being a traitor make you feel?  30 
1 A Like another slap in the face, like we keep getting lied to and that, you know, 
2 the masses of the country are getting crapped on, I guess, or, you know, we're just part of 
3 this whole puppet show and plan of, you know, the higher powers are always going to 
4 take over, I guess is how we felt at the time. 
5 
6 
7 Q 
A 
Q Did this messaging make you angry at Vice President Pence? 
Yes. 
Okay. I want to return to that other message on December 29th that 
8 you --you said: I don't care if I sleep in a car at this point. 
9 Can you explain the sentiment behind that statement, why you were willing to, 
10 you know, do whatever it takes to be in Washington, D.C., on January 6th? 
11 A Well, like I said, it was --we really --I really believed, you know, our country 
12 was in danger or, you know, and freedoms were going to be taken and my kids' lives in 
13 the future were going to be different than what we all know of growing up in America is 
14 like. 
15 And, you know, I --I guess I started believing all these things on this podcast that I 
16 was hearing about, you know, pedophilia rings and the powers of --you know, that 
17 were --the higher power that was really in charge of America and the politics and all the 
18 fraud and corruption going on and --you know, I guess --so that was my fear of, heck, if 
19 me joining these other millions of folks to stand up and show that we feel the same way 
20 will help anything, I would sleep in the car. I'd sleep anywhere if --you know, if that's 
21 really what was going to happen. But, obviously, now, hindsight is a little different. 
22 Q Thank you. 
23 
24 Mr. Loggins. You didn't stay. You didn't stay. You left. 
Mr. Tenney. Not me personally. I ended up shacking up with somebody I 
25 knew, yeah.  1 
2 Q 31 
BY-
And, as part of that need to save the country, did you at the time believe 
3 that Vice President Pence was standing in the way of, you know, President Trump saving 
4 the country? 
5 
6 
7 
8 A 
Q 
A 
Q Did I believe he was standing in the way? 
Yeah. 
No. No. No. I never really thought that or felt that, no. 
But, if he was a traitor who didn't certify the vote, would he have been 
9 standing in the way of President Trump saving the country? 
10 A No. I guess at that time, it was more of a --another hurdle or, you know, 
11 like I said, at that time, the way it was portrayed to me and I guess a lot of us was, you 
12 know, we believed all these things being shown on TV. We believed all this, you know, 
13 about the fraud and the steal and the lies and the corruption. We believed that all that 
14 was really true and really facts. 
15 And --you know, and every time, it would get brushed away as nothing or brushed 
16 away as a lie or brushed away as, you know, made up or whatever it was. It was like: 
17 Golly, you know, what else do we have to show them to, you know, see that, you know, 
18 he's trying to save or he's trying to turn --you know, he's trying to do something right? 
19 So I guess it was more of a --another hurdle that, you know, if this didn't show 
20 that this was the right way or the right move, then, you know, there has got to be 
21 something else to show or say or do. 
22 Q So Vice President Pence was a possible hurdle, then? I'm just trying to 
23 understand you. 
24 A Yeah. I guess that feeling --yeah, it never was like I felt like he was in the 
25 way of Trump if he did or didn't vote however he was supposed to vote. It was more of,  32 
1 if he didn't vote to not certify, then I guess we all felt, like, this --maybe Trump has 
2 something else he can do, or there is another something else that can be brought forth. 
3 Q Do you think that, looking back now, the mention of siege, was that 
4 something else that could be brought forth, or did you have something else in mind? 
5 A No. It was --it was something else. I never thought siege would have 
6 amounted to what happened. 
7 Q Got it. Thank you. 
8 And, just because you mentioned China a couple of times, were you listening to or 
9 watching Steve Bannon's podcast before January 6th? 
10 A That name sounds familiar. I might have seen it once or twice. But, no, it 
11 was never like a --something I watched or got into or anything like that. 
12 Q Great. Thank you very much, Mr. Tenney. 
13 And I think you mentioned you traveled with some people to Washington, D.C. 
14 Was that Chloe, someone named William Robert Norwood, and was there anybody else 
15 that you traveled with? 
16 A I --so I drove by myself to --I think it was Virginia. And I met Chloe there. 
17 And Chloe and I were the only ones that rode the rest of the way together into 
18 Washington, D.C. I had --I had never met nor knew this Norwood guy until that day. 
19 He knew Chloe and met up with Chloe and I, and that's when I met him. And everybody 
20 else, I had met there. I had no --I knew --didn't know them at all until that day. I met 
21 them there basically. 
22 
23 Q 
A That includes Darrell Youngers? 
Yes. Met him walking down the road. He was one of the guys we were 
24 going to interview at the speech basically. 
25 Q Got it. All right.  1 So let's talk a little bit about January 6th itself. What time did you get to the 
2 Ellipse? 
3 
4 
5 
6 A 
Q That's where the speech was? 
Yeah. Sorry. I should have asked first. 
Did you go to the Ellipse, or did you watch the speech from somewhere else? 
A We went --where Trump was speaking in that morning, I think he was 33 
7 supposed to start speaking early morning, maybe 8 or 9 or 10. We ended up getting to 
8 that area later, like an hour after, or 30 minutes after he was supposed to start. But 
9 come to find out he started later, late, so we were actually in that area when Trump did 
10 come out to speak. 
11 We didn't really get close enough to be able to see him, you know, obviously. 
12 We were close enough to hear everything, and we were in the large crowd. But I would 
13 say we got there --it's hard to say --10 --basically, when Trump's speech actually started, 
14 we were there maybe 20 minutes beforehand. 
15 Q Okay. So his speech started at noon. So you were probably there like 
16 11:30 or 11:40 or so? 
17 A About --yeah, because we were trying to shoot --I guess it was supposed to 
18 start at 9 or 10, and, yeah, we got there late, so yeah. 
19 Q All right. Did you go through, like, magnetometers to get into this area, or 
20 were you in a different area just watching the speech? 
21 
22 
23 A 
Q 
A Is that like radar or metal detectors? 
Yeah, yeah, yeah. 
No. We walked down on the main road from the hotel and got into the 
24 side of the crowd and just listened. 
25 Q Great.  34 
1 Did you hear any other --did you catch any other speakers, or was it just 
2 President Trump by the time you got there? 
3 A I think we were able to hear his son right beforehand, or whoever it was 
4 right beforehand. But, yeah, it was just Trump basically. 
5 Q And how was the crowd when you got there? Were you hearing a lot of 
6 chanting? Just tell me --describe what you were hearing. 
7 A Yeah. Yeah. A lot of --it was, honestly, a lot of more popular exciting 
8 chant. You know, "USA," and there was some "stop the steal" chants and --you know, 
9 and it was Trump chants and, you know, it was more of like a --I guess at the time, more 
10 of an exciting chanting and cheering and, you know, and hollering. It was never a, you 
11 know, negative angry hollering. But, yeah, it was some of the "stop the steal" and a lot 
12 of "USA," and a lot of, you know, Trump, you know, 24 or Trump 22, or whatever it was 
13 or--yeah. 
14 Q So let's pause on "stop the steal" for a second. What did you think "stop 
15 the steal" meant? 
16 A Well, like I said, at the time, we believed the junk that was coming out about 
17 the stolen election and these machines and this and that, so "stop the steal" was the 
18 prove --you know, show the facts, show the proof that supposedly was out there for so 
19 long and, you know, that why couldn't we count on government or politicians to take 
20 those facts and evidence and do something about it? 
21 And obviously I know why, because there was nothing to lean on. But, yeah, it 
22 was "stop the steal" meant show them the proof. You know, show --you know, do what 
23 the right thing is. If you see this corruption, you see the fraud, you see all this stuff, why 
24 isn't anything being done about it?  1 [4:57 p.m.] 
2 BY-: 
3 Q And was it the expectation that you show all of this proof and President 
4 Trump would be declared the winner of the election? 
5 A Or redo the election or redo, you know, however the election would be 
6 done. If you couldn't trust the machines, you couldn't trust certain States or cities or 
7 counties like they were saying, then, you know, how do we do it right? How do you 
8 make sure that the math is being heard basically. 
9 
10 
11 Q Got it. 
And did you listen to the whole speech by President Trump? 
A Yes. Like I said, we were so far out, we could hear it, a lot of the things 35 
12 were lost in the crowd noise and mix and everything. But, yes, we were there from start 
13 to finish, yes. 
14 Q Okay. Do you remember hearing President Trump saying, quote, "And if 
15 you don't fight like hell, you're not going to have a country anymore"? 
16 
17 
18 A 
Q 
A Yeah. 
What did you think of that line? 
Again, stand up for what --you know, what we were being told is happening 
19 and, you know, stand up for what we believe in, you know, as a free country and as our 
20 rights and Constitution and, you know --I mean, it was everything. We were being told 
21 the Constitution was going to be nothing and that would be taken away, and it's --yeah, it 
22 was --so, you know, when we --well, me. I can't say "we." When I hear, "Stand up 
23 and fight for your freedoms and stand up and fight," it was, like, yeah, we need to stand 
24 up and show that we believe these things and we want it to change. 
25 Q At the time, did it energize you to do anything on January 6th?  A 
Q No. No, not --no. 
Not specifically. 36 
1 
2 
3 And we talked about the language about Vice President Pence. Actually, let me 
4 back up just a second. 
5 Do you remember how the crowd reacted to hearing that line about fighting like 
6 hell? 
7 A I don't remember exactly. I mean, I could sit here and say they cheered 
8 and hollered, but I can't honestly say that I remember what they did right at that exact 
9 moment, no. 
10 Q Nothing sticks out. That's fine. 
11 So the language about Vice President Pence, we mentioned President Trump 
12 ad-libbed a number of lines about Vice President Pence, wanting Vice President Pence to 
13 have courage to stop the certification. 
14 How did the crowd react to those lines? 
15 A Again, I would say they cheered and hollered, but I can't really tell you with 
16 full honesty about remembering how the reaction was to those statements. 
17 Q Okay. And we talked about the line about marching down to the Capitol. 
18 You said other people in the crowd were talking about marching to the Capitol. Was 
19 that before or after President Trump told people to march down Pennsylvania Avenue? 
20 A I don't remember the crowd talking about it. I just remember that's what 
21 the whole crowd did. And, like, that's just kind of --you know, this is kind of where it all 
22 went, you know. We didn't really know what was --why we were headed to the Capitol 
23 or what there was at the Capitol or what was, you know --maybe it was, you know, just 
24 to be there and, like I said, show the support of our concern. But, yeah, I guess after he 
25 said, "Go to the Capitol," of course, there were folks in the crowd saying, "We're headed  37 
1 to the Capitol. We're headed up here this way to the Capitol," yes. But it wasn't --it 
2 wasn't like talking about it of, Oh, we're going here to do this or, We're going here to do 
3 that or have any expectations or anything. 
4 
5 Q 
A So did you expect anything to be at the Capitol when you were going there? 
No. 
6 Q Why don't you just describe to me what happened in between leaving the 
7 Ellipse and getting to the Capitol? 
8 A Honestly, it was a joyful walk. You know, like I said, it was me and two 
9 other people by this time that left the speech walking to the Capitol. You know, we 
10 were sightseeing on our way, looking back at the monuments as you get to, you know, 
11 the main grass area and, you know, looking at the buildings and talking. You know, it 
12 was more of a joyful, you know, nice walk, and that was it. You know, we really --there 
13 really wasn't much going on or much being said. You know, we felt like tourists at the 
14 time. 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A Did you hear any chanting like, Hang Mike Pence? 
Hang Mike Pence? 
Hang Mike Pence or anything about the Vice President? 
No, no, no. 
Any chants about Nancy Pelosi? 
No. 
21 Q Did you hear anyone talking about Civil War or 1776, Revolutionary War, 
22 anything like that? 
23 
24 
25 A 
Q 
A No, sir. 
Did you see or run into any Proud Boys when you were marching? 
I have no idea if I did, no.  Okay. 
Yeah. 38 
1 
2 
3 Q 
A 
Q And when you approached the Capitol, did you see any barricades when you 
4 were walking there? 
5 A Well, the way we came in, we came right at where that pond is in the front, I 
6 guess that's the front? 
7 Q We call it the west side. It looks like the front. It's where the 
8 inauguration stage was being constructed actually. 
9 A Yeah, it would be where the pond and fountain is. I don't recall any 
10 barriers. Like I said, we stood right at the pond forever, went on the other side of the 
11 pond. Um, I don't recall --yeah, well, there were some barriers off to the side so you 
12 couldn't go up certain sidewalks and certain things on the side, but I feel like we walked 
13 right around that pond and up to the pond and the steps right in front of the pond where 
14 those two statue horses are. And that's pretty much where everybody was and where 
15 we were. 
16 Q So you enter the Capitol, according to your statement of offense, at 2:19 or 
17 so from that side you were describing, which is the Senate wing, Senate side --sorry. 
18 You went up the west side and then into the Senate side. And that's only 7 or so 
19 minutes after the first breach. 
20 What were you seeing as you were walking up to the Capitol? 
21 A Well, we were down, like I said, on the --right in front of the pond, and we 
22 saw, you know, folks on the top of the stairs and, I guess, the little walkway in front of the 
23 Capitol, and they were just waving, waving their flags and cheering and, you know, 
24 hooting and hollering. So it was more of a, you know, let's go see, you know, 
25 what's --let's go see. You know, it was more of an interest in what was going on or  39 
1 being said. 
2 We got up there, we'd see that people were already coming in and out of the 
3 building. That's basically when we went in. 
4 Q Did you see tear gas flowing through the air, other smoke? Did you hear 
5 shouting? 
6 A We never saw tear gas at that time. We had heard some, like, couple of 
7 bangs off to the other side, I guess, where the inauguration was held at the main circular 
8 steps or something like that. But where we were in that little side area, no. When we 
9 came out, yes, there was a lot of tear gas and everything. 
10 Q And just before you go into the Capitol --so according to your statement of 
11 offense, this is page 4, apparently you were with Mr. Youngers at the time and he 
12 observed before going into the Capitol that people --quote, "People just stormed the 
13 front of the Capitol Building through tear gas. People aren't supposed to be up there, 
14 but they are there." 
15 So before you went in, did you have the sense that people were not supposed to 
16 be where they were? 
17 A In the moment, stupidly, no. Obviously, now it's a whole totally different 
18 story. But in that moment, I guess, when emotions was high and stuff, no, that did not 
19 cross my mind. I know that sounds stupid right now, but at that time, no. 
20 Q Did you see police officers anywhere around you when you were going up to 
21 the Senate wing door? 
22 A Yes. There was a group of them standing at one door to the left. They 
23 never left that one side and doorway and stair steps, and then we obviously went in 
24 where we went in. 
25 Q And what did you think about the fact that there were officers there? And I  40 
1 think there was probably broken glass around you since someone had just smashed a 
2 window at that time. What did that all make you think? 
3 A Again, I know it sounds so stupid because it is now, but at that time I wasn't 
4 thinking. I wasn't --that didn't cross my mind. Yes, looking at it now, 100 percent, I 
5 agree with you 100 percent, how stupid could you be to go anywhere near that and get 
6 close to that. And if you see cops and stuff there, then obviously that should tell you 
7 something. I get it 100 percent. But at that time I did not think that. 
8 Q Can you just explain to me then why you wanted to go into the Capitol at 
9 that time? 
10 A Well, it was, again, out of the same fear of I had kids in my head and, you 
11 know, the changing of the country in my head and --I don't know. Just to further 
12 protest, I guess. 
13 Q So, in your mind at the time, going into the Capitol was a continuation of the 
14 protest that started at the Ellipse? 
15 
16 
17 A 
Q 
A Yes. 
And this was a protest to keep President Trump in power? 
Well, honestly, it wasn't all about Trump being in power. It was more of 
18 about bringing to light what we were being told of all of this wrongdoing, you know. 
19 Honestly, I could care less if it was Trump or anybody else as long as, you know, the things 
20 we were being told about, you know, fraud and corruption and stealing and all this other 
21 stuff being circulated around the news, just as long as something was done about that or 
22 people were held accountable for things, you know, that was more of my concern. 
23 wouldn't have cared if it was Trump or, you know, whoever, you know. Throw any 
24 name out there. I wouldn't have cared who was in power, who the President was, as 
25 long as all of this other stuff that we were being told, you know, was brought to light and  41 
1 something was done about it, I guess. 
2 Q All right. But President Trump was the one that day who was talking about 
3 these issues, correct? 
4 
5 
6 A 
Q 
A Yes. 
The protests --
Leading up to --I mean, yeah, he was the main reason why, I guess, all of this 
7 started coming out, yes. 
8 Q And the protest there was to support President Trump in his efforts to stop 
9 the certification of the vote, correct? 
10 
11 A 
Q Correct. 
And so then, that's the protest to stop the certification of the vote that 
12 continued into the Capitol? 
13 
14 
15 
16 A 
Q I guess, ultimately, yeah, yes. 
Thank you. 
Did you hear any chants as you were entering the Capitol? 
A Just the same ones, Stop the Steal, U.S.A., U.S.A., U.S.A. You know, there 
17 were a lot of us screaming, you know, Don't destroy, you know, just stand or occupy, 
18 don't destroy. We're not here to destroy, just occupy, just occupy, you know, speak 
19 your --you know, use your freedoms to speak. Don't --you know, we're not here to fire, 
20 we're not here to destroy, Stop the Steal and, you know, that's basically all it was. 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q Do you remember hearing, like, "Whose house? Our house" chants? 
Yeah. Yeah, I did hear that, yeah. 
Did you hear at that time any chants about Nancy Pelosi? 
No. 
Anything about revolution?  42 
1 A No. Just now, and then obviously looking back at the videos that were 
2 either sent to me or that I see now, I know Darrell screamed once, This is what a 
3 revolution starts at or looks like, or something like that. But I don't recall like a bunch of 
4 people screaming about a revolution or anything like that, no. 
5 Q Okay. Were people around you talking about pressuring Members of 
6 Congress or talking about in general stopping the certification of the vote? 
7 A No, no. Honestly, we --well, me. We didn't even have any idea, I guess, 
8 what was going on behind closed doors at a certain time or whatever. You know, we 
9 were outside. No cell phones worked out there for some reason. Nothing --you know, 
10 we had really no knowledge of what was happening. Like I said, it was more of a holy 
11 cow. Folks are up top there. Let's go see --let's go up top there with them, you know. 
12 You know, there wasn't any of, Get to Congress or, you know, nothing like that at all. 
13 Q But people did know that the cert --or at least you knew the certification of 
14 the vote was happening that day, right? 
15 
16 A 
Q Yes, yes. 
Okay. And when you entered the Capitol, were you already aware that 
17 Vice President Pence had decided he was not going to do President Trump's bidding? 
18 A No. Like I said, we didn't know as far as what was happening inside or 
19 time lines of what was really going on. It was more of a follow the masses and follow, 
20 you know, your own stupid curiosity, I guess. 
21 Q All right. So I want to go through some --we are going to talk a little bit 
22 about your short time inside. It looks like you left at 2:32. You entered at 2:19, so 
23 13 minutes. But in those 13 minutes, according to your statement of facts and the 
24 statement of offense, you entered into the east foyer, Mr. Tenney, and had some 
25 interactions with police around the east rotunda doors.  43 
Can you describe those for us, or for me? 1 
2 A So we walked in the door we walked in and went down this hallway, up the 
3 stairs, and then we came into this big round room, which now I know is the rotunda. 
4 And there was basically a handful of folks in there, I guess, as I can recall. There might 
5 have been more, but from what I remember just seeing right around me. But I 
6 remember looking over and hearing at that door that I went to, they were there --the 
7 crowd that was at that door was screaming "Help." They were banging on it. "Help. 
8 We're being squished. We're being crushed. We can't breathe." I guess they were 
9 throwing tear gas into that crowd at the door from behind them, and you could literally 
10 see through the glass, you know, tears and their face under distress, and they literally 
11 were squished up against the door. And, you know, folks were, like, "I can't breathe. 
12 Help. I can't do this. Help." And that's the main reason why I went to that door was 
13 to try to help, you know, relieve them from being crushed. 
14 There was a time where there was somebody down --I was hollering at somebody 
15 that it looked like they worked there at the time, and I was, like, Hey, you got to do 
16 something. These people are getting crushed. You know, they're getting this and that, 
17 you know. And then --obviously, I know why now, but nobody was doing anything to 
18 stop all of that. 
19 And that's essentially why I went to that door to begin with. 
20 Q But did you get --according to the statement of --I think this is from the 
21 statement of facts, you said to one officer, in essence, You're not going to stop us and 
22 that there's so much of us that the officer could not stop all of you. 
23 Why did you say that to the officer if you were just trying to let people in? 
24 A It was after the fact because he kept trying to --I guess they kept trying to 
25 close the door again once the door got opened, and people just kept pouring in and  44 
1 following in and following in. And I guess he kept trying to shove them back and shove 
2 them back. And was, like, Dude, you're not going to stop them. Just let them in. You 
3 know, you're not going to stop all of us. 
4 That same cop, I had talked to him face-to-face numerous times through that 
5 whole, you know, 10, 15 minutes that I was there. You know, I told him, you know, if 
6 they've got all this other stuff on video, they need to see that. There was numerous 
7 times where we were literally standing face-to-face, and I was, like, Man, I'm not here to 
8 hurt you. I'm not here to fight you. I don't want to fight you. I don't want nothing to 
9 do with you. We're here to stand up for our country. Why aren't you standing up for 
10 your country, you know, things like that. I was never there to, you know, try to fight any 
11 cops. I would never --never would ever have done that. 
12 
13 Q 
A Did you get into any physical altercations with the cops then? 
No. They show that when somebody --a cop, I guess, was falling into the 
14 door, I pushed him to the side or something like that. But, again, that wasn't out of 
15 anger or fightingness or anything. That was because I was getting, you know, pushed 
16 into by these folks and --but, no, I never got into what I considered a physical altercation 
17 where I wanted to physically assault or physically, you know, be aggressive towards any 
18 cop or anything, no. 
19 Q Did you grab any of the officers by the shoulder or anything to stop them 
20 from closing the door? 
21 A Again, that's what they put in there and that's what you can perceive from 
22 the video. But, no, my recollection is when he tried to push me out of the way, I was 
23 like --1 might have put my hand on him and said, Man, look at them. They're getting 
24 crushed or --you know, it was never a --it was never an intent for me to be physical or, 
25 you know, put any type of aggression towards any of them.  45 
1 Mr. Loggins. If I may, during the guilty plea, we did not admit to those facts. 
2 We admitted to the sufficient facts that support the two charges. That was the 
3 government's listing of the facts and their interpretation of the facts. But in terms of the 
4 elements of the offense, we know what it took, that the one charge was completed upon 
5 crossing the line. We know the interpretation is that touching can be an assault. We 
6 understand all of that. But in terms of their interpretation of the assaults, like I said, we 
7 admitted the facts sufficient to support the indictment but did not necessarily agree or 
8 disagree with the government's presentation of the interpretation of the facts. 
9 And with his --and do agree with what I put on the --under the plea agreement, 
10 you've got four or five paragraphs where the government talks and then the paragraphs 
11 of what George did. That's how we delineated between those. 
12 - All right. But in the statement of offense, paragraph 16, it says: 
13 "Tenney ran back to the door and grabbed the employee by the shoulder." 
14 And that is the statement of offense that you all agreed to, so that's what I'm 
15 asking about. 
16 Mr. Loggins. We agreed that whatever touches he had was sufficient to reach 
17 the assault level, okay? I mean, that's a wide range of topics on there. But their 
18 characterization of hitting somebody or pulling somebody through a door or doing some 
19 other thing, I don't necessarily agree with their interpretation of what the purpose of the 
20 touching was and whether the act was simply to help somebody out or actually be a 
21 detriment to them. It was attested as offensive. It was attested as a criminal act, and 
22 that's what we admitted to. 
23 
24 - I understand. I was just letting you know where I was getting that. 
Mr. Loggins. I understand. It's not a big deal. We just need to be on the 
25 record about some things.  46 
- Yes, I appreciate it, Mr. Loggins. 
BY-: 1 
2 
3 Q So did you say to an officer, Mr. Tenney, "We are one of you, we are one of 
4 you"? 
5 A Yes. In one of those offings to him, he said, I am American. I'm just trying 
6 to do my job. Help us. Help me out a little bit. And I said, Well, man, we're one of 
7 you too, you know, because obviously the majority of law enforcement and military and 
8 stuff feel very strongly about the Constitution, feel very strongly about the freedoms in 
9 America and all these other rights we have, you know, so I --you know, that's what I 
10 meant by that. It's, like, you know, We're one of you. We believe the same things, you 
11 know. It's, like, How can you not, you know, stand up, you know, and feel the same way 
12 about it with us? 
13 Q And this is also from the statement of offense. So it seems like you were 
14 near when another rioter grabbed an officer from behind and threw the officer to the 
15 ground. Another officer begins assisting the officer on the ground, and according to the 
16 statement of offense, paragraph 19, you advanced towards the officer on the ground but 
17 Youngers kept you back. 
18 A Yeah, I remember that. That's completely false. I literally --when 
19 they --so Youngers --when that happened, Youngers was the first one to get in between 
20 that guy and the officers. And he was, like, Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. I happened to 
21 be the next guy standing off to the side, and that's a whole other just falsely, you know, 
22 depiction of that video or picture. I was never advancing towards any officer. 
23 was --you know, literally if you watch every single video from start to finish, that same 
24 officer that was thrown on the ground was the same officer that I would talk to and was, 
25 like, Hey, man, we're not here to hurt you, I'm never going to fight you or nothing like  47 
1 that. And I had talked to him face-to-face numerous times. 
2 Q So I just want to be clear, though, because this is in your statement of 
3 offense, and I will quote it again. Another police officer began assisting Officer B.A., the 
4 one on the ground. Tenney advanced toward Officer B.A., but Youngers kept Tenney 
5 back. 
6 And this is your statement of offense. This is what you all agreed to. So are you 
7 telling me that --
8 
9 
10 Mr. Loggins. No, that's not what we agreed to. 
- The word --the statement of offense? 
Mr. Loggins. We agreed to the facts --it's the difference --we agreed to the facts 
11 sufficient to support the charge, not their recitation of the delineation or the occurrence 
12 of the raid or their interpretation of the event. There's a huge difference in those two. 
13 - All right. So you're saying you did not agree to this statement --
14 Mr. Loggins. Sufficient facts. If you're trying to pin him for lying --
15 - I'm not. I'm actually-- let's go off the record for one second at 5:20 
16 p.m. 
17 We'll go off the record. 
18 [Discussion off the record.] 
19 - So we'll go back on the record at 5:22. 
20 Mr. Loggins, did you have something you want to say about the last question? 
21 Mr. Loggins. Well, just as an overall scope of the things, as often the case, clients 
22 have multiple charges in other places and reasons they can't admit to all of the facts or 
23 they disagree with the facts. But those reasons also present the opportunity for that 
24 person to say, Well, you know, I don't agree with this, this and this, but in terms of the 
25 facts, the actions support the charge. I admit that. And I don't have the statute in  48 
1 front of me. I can quote it, but let's just call it an offensive touch for this level, which 
2 obviously is the lowest level of assault. 
3 He can do that reaching out --an offensive touch can be completed by touching 
4 somebody, right? It can also be how that is interpreted. And let's talk to Giuliani about 
5 the touch, in fact. You know, one person, the video shows he touched him. He says he 
6 broke his arm and hurt his shoulder and needs surgery and, you know, everything. I'm 
7 overstating there. 
8 But the point is my client, when it came time for that, cannot agree with the 
9 actual delineation of the facts in that statement, or with all the interpretation of those 
10 facts. As an example with Mr. Youngers, Mr. Youngers was debriefed. He was 
11 debriefed first. He was given the same charges as my client. They then dismissed 
12 everything but the misdemeanor charge. And the facts of how the touch or who was 
13 doing whatever that was involved in that last question, that's all from Mr. Youngers' 
14 statement. There's no situation on earth where I would be in a position or have my 
15 client admit to his statement. 
16 But in terms of we're not backing --I also want to be clear, we're not backing away 
17 from the charge. We're not backing away from the guilty plea. We've done that 
18 openly, freely, knowingly, voluntarily, and every other word they like. But in terms of 
19 trying to take somebody else's facts and put them on my client, he made the same 
20 presentation on the day I met him, he made the same presentation when he was 
21 debriefed by the FBI, and again today. 
22 
23 
24 
25 Thank you. I appreciate the opportunity to talk. 
- Thankyou. 
BY-
Q So, Mr. Tenney, looking back then at January 6th now --you know, on the  49 
1 day you said to these officers, We are one of you, we are one of you. Looking back, 
2 knowing what you know now, would you say something else to the police officers? 
3 A I would not, because what I meant by one of you is you're --we're all 
4 Americans. You're American just like us. You want your freedoms just like us. I'm 
5 not here to fight you. I'm not here to do anything disrespectful to you. 
6 So that statement that I said, "We're one of you," absolutely means nothing 
7 derogatory or angry or any other way than, Hey, man, we're in this together, you know, 
8 because my main concern and thoughts were about the corruption in the country and 
9 losing the country. It was nothing to do with not liking police or being against police or 
10 anything like that. 
11 
12 
13 Q 
A 
Q Do you know that a lot of police officers got injured on January 6th? 
I know now, yes. 
Right. 
14 And would you agree that even if you didn't intend to hurt officers and didn't hurt 
15 officers, you were part of a large group of people that collectively led to officers getting 
16 hurt? 
17 
18 A 
Q Yes. 
So that was more of my question, because on the day, you know, you were 
19 part of this group. Looking back, do you think you were acting as someone on the same 
20 side as police on January 6th? 
21 A Well, I can tell you, we were --me and Darrell and the group, we would have 
22 never let anybody fight a cop. If we saw a group of people attacking cops or anything 
23 like that, we would have jumped in and been right --helped and pulled those folks off, 
24 and we would have helped the cops, yes. The whole time I would have taken the cops' 
25 side as far as if any physical altercation had happened.  50 
1 Q Right. But you were --so you helped open the door that let in a lot of 
2 people into the Capitol around that time, 2:25 or so. And from the statement of facts, 
3 you shouted, "Come on Americans" as the rioters came in. So I'm just wondering how 
4 that dynamic works with there's a lot of people coming in, officers get hurt. How do you 
5 feel about that now? 
6 A Now it's awful. Like I said, at the time, none of that was going through my 
7 head. I saw folks being hurt, normal --so I guess you want to call them civilians. 
8 Normal folks were hurt and crying and distressed and pleading for help. I would have 
9 helped them just as much as I would have helped cops. 
10 Obviously, now I do see the big picture. I do understand that as a whole, I was a 
11 part of the problem, and I, you know --as a whole, you know, there was people that 
12 suffered and people that got hurt as a whole. I totally understand that now, yes. 
13 
14 
15 
16 Q Thank you. 
So why did you shout then, "Come on Americans" as you let rioters in? 
A 
Q Because they were Americans standing up for what we believed in. 
And that was the same saving the country. You thought by letting all of 
17 these people in, you were furthering the cause of protecting the country, correct? 
18 A Yes. And, again, my thought was not, Oh, let all of these people in, no. 
19 Obviously, you couldn't see past the first five or 10 people that were getting slammed 
20 against the door with, you know, concussion grenades being thrown right at their faces. 
21 You couldn't see past that. What you could see is the five or 10 people right at the door 
22 being slammed or smushed. That was my only thought. Get these doors open, help 
23 these people. I had no idea what was out behind the steps and what went out into the 
24 whole area. You know, I had no --that was not once a thought of mine, Oh, let's open 
25 these doors so 500 more folks could come in, you know. I'm not saying, you know,  51 
1 that --if that went through my mind, I don't know if I would have helped those same folks 
2 crying for help. I don't know. But that certainly --the whole point of that door was not 
3 to let a wave of folks in. You know, I had no idea that in the long run --in the end of it, 
4 that's what really happened was, heck, I just opened a door that let even more people in, 
5 you know. But at the time, my main thing was to help the folks that were crying for 
6 help. 
7 
8 Q 
A Okay. So why did you leave shortly thereafter at 2:32? 
Because we saw how out of hand it was getting. People were starting to 
9 push and shove all around. You know, it was getting real, you know, rowdy, I guess, in 
10 that area. And then we realized, it finally sunk in, we probably shouldn't be in here. 
11 We need to get out of here. 
12 Q Okay. And I know you said your cell phone wasn't working, but at 2:24 on 
13 January 6th, President Trump tweets basically saying Vice President Pence didn't have the 
14 courage to do what was necessary to save our country. So that's 8 minutes before you 
15 leave and shortly --a minute before you help open the doors to let people in. 
16 Did you hear anybody in that period chime talking about Vice President Pence? 
17 A No. Like I said, we had zero recollection --we had zero knowledge of things 
18 that were actually going on during any of that time. We had no phones, no nothing. 
19 Heck, even my phone had died because I guess it spent all morning searching for service, 
20 searching for service, and it died before I even got to the Capitol Building. 
21 But, no, I had zero --look, I get --I get it. I get it. I get with the timelines, how 
22 they're lining up. I get what it looks like that I just went in and opened this door, but 
23 that is not at all how the facts are laid out, or how it really was, and it's just not the case. 
24 You know, I got mixed up. I made a horrible decision. My decision was to help folks 
25 that were being slammed behind this door. Come to find out, now, you know, it looks  52 
1 like I helped this whole wave of folks come in. 
2 Q Understood. 
3 Did you eventually see that day President Trump's 4:17 tweet with a video telling 
4 people to go home? 
5 
6 
7 A No. By then, I was back at the hotel room and I saw it on TV. 
Q You saw it on TV. And what did you think about the video after you saw it? 
A I just remember seeing the little video. Trump was standing outside, I 
8 guess, the White House at the time, and he said, Everybody go home. Stop what you're 
9 doing. Everybody go home. And like what you see, this was 2 hours --you know, this 
10 was a long time since I had already left and went back and, you know, was --yeah, yeah. 
11 That's --
12 
13 Q 
A Did you think President Trump should have said that earlier in the day? 
Well, obviously, yeah. But, again, I had no idea what was going on 
14 anywhere else in that building before me, after me, during me. I had no idea how bad it 
15 was. I had no idea who was getting hurt, and I had no idea how crazy certain areas were 
16 and how wild these groups were getting. You know, I had no idea of any of that until 
17 later that night or days after or whatever it was. 
18 Q And do you think if President Trump had sent that message earlier, maybe 
19 some of that craziness that you found out about later would not have happened? 
20 
21 A Most certainly, yeah. 
Q Thank you very much. 
22 And can you just briefly, you know, describe to me what you did after you left the 
23 Capitol? You mentioned that you went back to the hotel room, but what did you hear 
24 on the walk back? What did you do in the hotel room? Just tell me about that. 
25 A Nothing really on the walk back. Yeah, we didn't really hear anything.  53 
1 There was cop cars going around, you know, but we didn't really hear anything that was, 
2 you know, outside of, you know, what we had already been seeing and hearing that 
3 whole day. 
4 When we got back to the hotel room, like I said, the girl that I went with wanted 
5 to do a podcast to talk about the day. So we did a podcast in the hotel room. 
6 Honestly, that was about it, you know. Went to bed shortly after that. During the 
7 podcast, you know, we hear cops and sirens outside, but, you know, there wasn't 
8 anything that I could say I saw or say that happened. 
9 Q Do you remember what you talked about in the podcast, like what you said 
10 about the day? 
11 A Yeah. I talked about our experience for the whole day and how it started 
12 and what it felt like inside of the building, what it felt like after the speech, walking, you 
13 know. Yeah, we talked about basically like we're doing now with you. 
14 Q So can you expand on that a little bit? Just like on the day of January 6th, 
15 what were you saying about how you felt inside the building? What were you saying 
16 about how you felt going to the building? Do you remember the words that you used 
17 that day? 
18 A Yeah. I remember talking about that it started out as like a positive, 
19 energetic morning. You know, people were excited, happy. You know, we talked 
20 about, you know, walking through D.C., how it was we were almost in awe. You know, 
21 we talked about we felt like tourists. Even when I got in the Capitol, you know, I literally 
22 stood there for 5, 10 minutes just looking because, like I said, you're in awe. You know, 
23 you're just --you know, you're overtaken by what it is and the building itself, you know. 
24 And we talked about how --you know, I guess we had heard some certain side of the 
25 building, cops were letting busloads of folks come in and buses of people were being let  54 
1 in, just let in. And we talked about how when I was --I talked about inside, you know, 
2 we were screaming, don't destroy. We're not here to destroy. We're not here to fight. 
3 You know, we talked about how, from what we experienced, nobody was trying to fight 
4 cops. Nobody was trying to ambush cops or gang up on cops, you know. And the 
5 people that we saw that I would call an American or a patriot were folks that were just 
6 proud to be in America and wanted to stand up for their rights and were in there just to, 
7 you know, holler for what they believed in. Nobody was wanting to wreck anything. 
8 Nobody was wanting to steal anything or fight anyone or nothing like that. 
9 Q Just quickly on that point about --you used the word "patriot." Do you 
10 think, looking back, people who entered the Capitol that day were acting patriotically? 
11 A Again, hindsight is a lot different. If you would have asked me this the day 
12 of, I probably would have said yes. But now, knowing the full picture, knowing, you 
13 know, the consequences, knowing what it all --knowing everything that I know now, no. 
14 You know, I guess that's not truly what America stands for, no. 
15 
16 Q 
A And why not? 
Um, there's still a right and wrong way, you know. Yes, standing up for 
17 what you believe in; yes, you know, fighting for your freedoms, I do believe that's 
18 America. That's how we were founded. That's what it's been since, you know, day 
19 one. So that side of it I could agree with being patriotic. But folks getting hurt that 
20 should not get hurt is not patriotic. Certain groups that do things the wrong way is not 
21 patriotic. Inflicting violence is not any way to do it, you know. It's --you know, it's like 
22 a double-edge sword, like, you know, like --I mean, I don't even know how to say it other 
23 than, yes, standing up for what you believe in and your freedoms and your rights, I would 
24 say is patriotic, but going overboard isn't. 
25 Q It sounds like you're putting a line between speech and actions like those  1 that happened on January 6th. Does that sound like a decent line? 
2 
3 A 
Q Yes. 
And would you say that stopping the certification of a 
4 congressional --stopping the certification of the vote for Joe Biden through force was 
5 patriotic? 
6 
7 
8 
9 A 
Q Through force, no. 
Great. Thank you very much. 
We're almost towards the end here. 
- Mr. Loggins, this is probably a better question for you an answer. 
10 What is the current status of Mr. Tenney's case? 
11 Mr. Loggins. Mr. Tenney has pied guilty. We have the information from 
12 probation to do the presentence report. We're in the process of getting that together 55 
13 and sending it back to them. There's a sentencing scheduled for, like, October 17, right 
14 along in there. 
15 
16 
17 - Great. Thank you very much. 
BY-: 
Q So, Mr. Tenney, you've touched on this a number of times as we've been 
18 talking, but I just want to give you a chance to maybe expand about your thoughts about 
19 what happened on January 6th now that you look back. 
20 A Me personally, it's embarrassing. It's pretty devastating for me personally. 
21 I get real emotional now. It was stupid. It was --I let my emotions and the things I was 
22 being told through TV and media and online and podcasts drive me to think and feel a 
23 fear or feel a certain way that did not have to be there at all, you know. 
24 I think January 6th was awful. It's not at all --like I said, it's not at all the way 
25 things should go down in America, whether there is fraud going on or not, you know.  56 
1 Obviously, looking at it now, I see and I feel now, we got hosed. I got hosed. I don't 
2 know if other folks feel the same way as I feel now, but, you know, we were lied to. You 
3 know, we were made to feel a certain way and act a certain way because of what we 
4 were being told and, you know, all our fears. But, yeah, I've lost a lot. It's pretty much 
5 ruined my life, and it was awful. 
Q Thank you. 6 
7 And would you say that --you said you were lied to. Do you feel that President 
8 Trump was lying to you about the election? 
9 
10 
11 A 
Q 
A Yeah. Several people were, yeah. 
Who else besides President Trump? 
Everybody involved with him. Whether it was Sidney Powell, whether it 
12 was Giuliani, whether it was Fox News, whether it was these podcasts I was watching, 
13 whether it was Facebook posts, anything and everything. I mean, there comes a time 
14 where you can only throw so much mud, and when all of it ends up being crap, then you 
15 know it's a bunch of crap. 
16 Q So do you think today that the 2020 election was stolen from President 
17 Biden --I'm sorry --stolen from President Trump? 
18 
19 
20 A 
Q 
A Do I feel that today? 
Right. 
No, no. I mean, I don't know how many Supreme Court judges can say it's 
21 crap. I don't know how many --all of these other folks can say it's crap. It's crap. 
22 mean --
23 Q Thank you. 
24 And do you assign any blame to President Trump for what happened on 
25 January 6th?  1 A I mean, I don't know where else you can put it on that would make us feel 
2 that way or believe these things. That's pretty much where it all came from. 
3 
4 
5 
6 Q BY­
Thank you. 
And if you could, what would you say to other people in your situation? 
A Wake up. Don't believe bull crap you hear. If you --you know, the only 
7 people you need to worry about is you and your family. I mean, that's --I don't know 57 
8 what else to say. It's just what I've been depicted as isn't true, and that's not at all what 
9 my mindset was or how I've ever felt and did feel or feel now. I just don't know how 
10 else to say it. 
11 
12 Q I appreciate that. 
So we have covered a lot of topics today. Is there anything that we missed or 
13 anything that you would like to say before we wrap up? 
14 
15 A No. 
- Okay. Well, thank you very much, Mr. Tenney. I do appreciate 
16 your willingness to sit down for this interview. You know, as you saw, we can read your 
17 filings, we can read the statement of facts, but we get a fuller picture of what happened 
18 on January 6th by talking to you. And that's what we're here to do, to get as much of 
19 the facts and circumstances about the day as we can. So we very much appreciate it. 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 And thank you, Mr. Loggins, for your help in setting this up. 
If you have any questions, feel free to reach out. 
Mr. Loggins. I have no questions. 
I did check my notes and the sentencing is set for October 20th. 
- October 20th. Got it. 
Thank you very much to you both. Hope you enjoy the rest of your day.  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 We'll go off the record at 5:43 p.m. 
[Whereupon, at 5:43 p.m., the interview was concluded.] 58  1 
2 
3 Certificate of Deponent/Interviewee 
4 I have read the foregoing __ pages, which contain the correct transcript of the 
5 answers made by me to the questions therein recorded. 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 Witness Name 
Date 59 