<@Hice nf tlf t l.ttornt~ <itneral · 
1la11qington.1B. C!l. 211.530 
May 11, 2009 
MEMORANDUM FOR HEADS OF DEPARTMENT COMPONENTS 
ALL UNITED STATES ATTORNEYS 
FROM: ~ATTORNEY GENERAL 
SUBJECT: Communications with the 
The rule of law depends upon the evenhanded administration of justice. The legal 
judgments of the Department of Justice must be im~ an<I insulated from political influence, 
It is imperative that the Department's investigatory and prosccll19rial powers be exercised free 
from partisan consideration. It is a fundamental duty: of every employee of the Department to 
"CDSUrC that:these principles are upheld in all of the D artment' 1~ al dcavors. 
In order to promote the rule of law, therefore, this morandum sets out guidelines to 
govern all conummications between representatives of the D~ent, on the one band, and 
representatives of the White House and Congress, o the other, and procedures intended to 
implement those guidelines . (1'he "White House.' for the . ses of this Memorandum, means 
all components within the Ex ·ve Office of the Rresi ent) These guidelines have been 
developed in consultation wi~ and have the full sui:iport of, the Co~scl to the President 
The Assistant Attorneys "~----·, the United States Attorneys, and the heads of the 
investigative agencies in the Depaitment have the primary responsibility to initiate and supervise 
investigations an cases. Tliese officials, like their superiors and their subordinates, must be 
insulated from influences that should not affect decisions in particular criminal or civil cases. As 
tu Supn:me Court ,aid long ago with respect to United States Attorneys, so it is true of all those 
who exercise the Department's investigatory and prosecutorial powers: they arc representatives 
"not fan ordinafy arty to a controversy, but of a sovereignty whose obligation to govern 
imyartially is as co lling as its obligation to govern at all; and whose interest, therefore, in a 
cnminal prosccuti n is not that it shall win a case, but that justice shall be done." Berger v. 
United States, 295 U.S. 78, 88 (1935). 
a. In order to ensure the President's ability to perform bis constitutional obligation to 
"take care that the laws be faithfully executed," the Justice Department will advise the White 
House concerning pending or contemplated criminal or civil investigations or cases when-but 
only when-it is important for the performance of the President's duties and appropriate from a . 
law enforcement perspective. 
HCOR-Pre-Certification Events-07262021-000681  Memorandum for Head of Department Components 
All United States Attorneys 
Subject: Communications with the White House and Congress Page2 
b. Initial communications between the Department and the White House co 
pending or contemplated criminal investigations or cases will involve only the Atto 
or the Deputy Attorney General, from~ side of the Department, and th~ Co 1 t 
President, the Principal Deputy Counsel to the President, the President · est ent, 
from the side of the White House. If the communications concern a ntemplated 
civil investigation or case, the Associate Attorney General may al [f continuing 
contact between the Department and the White 'House on a parti uir d the 
officials who participated in the initial communication may desi 
side to carry on such contact The designating officials must m u 
the designated subordinates must keep their superiors re . 
· Communications about Justice Department personn · g o specific 
criminal or civil investigations or cases are e uirements of this 
paragraph. This policy does not, however, p tions, public 
affairs, or press offices of the White House communicating 
with each other to coordinate efforts. 
c. In order to ensure that Con vestigatory and 
oversight functions, the Department wil inquiries from Congressional 
Committees consistent with licies laws re rofessional ethical obligations that 
may require confidentiality avoid publicity t~at may undermine a 
particular investigation or li the Congressional hearings or 
investigations, all inquiries Members of Congress or their staffs 
concerning p · t g criminal investigations or cases should be 
directed to. the eral or the Beputy Attorney General. In the case of particular civil 
· o be directed to the Associate Attorney General. 
ded to interfere with the normal communications 
betw t departments and agencies (including agencies within the 
ve Office of the Prest nt when they are the Department's clients) and any meetings or 
cations n to the proper conduct of an investigation or litigation. 
0~ It i, criticilly important to have frequent and expeditious communications.relating to 
national security matters, including counter-terrorism and oountcr-espwnage issues. Therefore 
communications from (or to) the Deputy Counsel to the President for N~tional Security Affairs. 
the staff of the National Security Council and the staff of the Homeland Security Council that 
relate to a national security matter are not subject to the limitations set out above. However, this 
exception for national security matters does not extend to pending adversary cases in litigation 
that may have national security implications. Communications related to such cases are subject 
to the guidelines for pending cases described above. 
HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000682  Memorandum for Head of Department Components 
All United States Attorneys 
Subject: Communications with the White House and Congress 
All requests from the White House for formal legal opinions shall come Page3 
President, the Counsel to the President, or one of the Deputy Counsels to e s1 . l 
be directed to the Attorney General and the A,ssistant Attorney General ce of l.Mal · .· 
Counsel. The Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Legal · rt to the 
Attorney General and the Deputy ·Attorney General any comm · his ·ew, 
constitute improper attempts to influence the Office of Legal Co 
4. Communications Involving the Solicitor 
Matters in which the Solicitor General's ·ons about 
which contact with the Office of the Counsel to ap rdingly, the. 
Attorney General and Deputy Attorney G · is · ents with the 
Office of the Counsel to govern such co 
5. Presidential Pardon Matters 
The Office of the Pardon Attorn tly with the Counsel to the 
President and the Deputy pardon matters. The Counsel to 
the President and the Dcpu signate subordinates to carry on 
contact with the tial contact is made. 
Al er positions in the Department must be made 
witho ant's partisan affiliation. Thus, while the Department 
re the White House and from Senators, Members of . 
· ng political appointments, such communications regarding 
are not proper when they concern a job applicant's or a job 
Efforts to influence personnel decisions concerning career positions 
reported to the Deputy Attorney General. 
0 7. unications Not Relating to Pending Investigations 
or Criminal or Civil Cases 
/ ;_ . All comrnunicatjons between the Department and the White House or Congress that are 
' limited to policy, legislation, budgeting, political appointments, public affairs, intergovernmental 
relations, or administrative matters that do not relate to a particular contemplated or pending 
investigation or case may be handled directly by the parties concerned. Such communications 
should take place with the knowledge of the Department's lead contact regarding the subject 
HCOR-Pre-CertificalionEvents-07262021-000683  Memorandwn for Head of Department Components Page4 
. All United States Attorneys 
Subject: Communications ·with the White House and Congress 
under discµssion. In the case of communications with Congres~. the Office of the Depu,1:)1 
Attorney General and Office of the Assistant Attorney General for Legislative Affairs s owl 
kept informed of aU ~unications ~ \egis\ation and the Office ~f fue A-sT,ociate 
Attorney General should be kept informed about important policy communications in its areas of 
responsibilicy. · · 
As Attorney General Benjamin Civiletti noted in issuing a similar memo dum during 
the Carter Administration, these guidelines and procedures are not intended to wall o the 
Department from legitimate communication. We welcome criticism an~_aJlvicc. WHat these 
procedures are intended to do is ro~e communications to the~ per-officials so they canoe 
adequately reviewed.and considered, free from either the reality or tlie ~cc of improper 
influence. 
Decisions to initiate investigations .and enfo ucn y discretionary. 
That discretion must be exercised to the exten h gard to partisanship 
or the social, political, or interest group posi on ofef wils involved in the 
particular cases or those who may seek ~ intervene on their behalf. 
This memorandwn supersedes the memorandwn is d oy Attorney General Mukasey on 
December 19, 2007, titled Communicatior,s with the ite House. 
_ _l_ -.. 
HCOR-Pre-CertificationEvents-07262021-000684 