1 
2 
3 
4 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE 
5 JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL, 
6 U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
7 WASHINGTON, D.C. 
8 
9 
10 
11 INTERVIEW OF: WANDREA ARSHAYE MOSS 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 Wednesday, June 1, 2022 
Washington, D.C. 
20 The interview in the above matter was held in Room 4480, O'Neill House Office 
21 Building, commencing at 11:03 a.m. 
22 Present: Representative Schiff. 1  1 
2 Appearances: 
3 
4 
5 For the SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE 
6 THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL: 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 , STAFF ASSOCIATE 
, INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
, CHIEF CLERK 
PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBER 
13 For WANDREA ARSHAYE MOSS: 
14 
15 BRITTANY WILLIAMS 
16 MERYL CONANT GOVERNSKI 
17 MIKE GOTTLIEB 
18 Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP 
19 1875 K Street, N.W. 
20 Washington, D.C. 20006-1238 2  1 
2 
3 Ms.- And we'll go on the record now, please. 
Good morning. This is a transcribed interview of Wandrea Shaye Moss, 
4 conducted by the House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the 
5 United States Capitol, pursuant to House Resolution 503. 
6 At this time, I'd like to please ask the witness to state your full name and spell 
7 your last name for the record. 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 Ms. Moss. Wandrea ArShaye Moss, M-o-s-s. 
Ms.- Thank you very much. 
And, Counsel, could you please also identify yourself for the record. 
Ms. Williams. Brittany Williams, W-i-1-1-i-a-m-s, from Protect Democracy. 
Ms. Governski. Meryl Governski with Willkie Farr & Gallagher. 
Mr. Gottlieb. Mike Gottlieb with Willkie Farr & Gallagher. 
14 Ms.- Great. Thank you very much. 3 
15 So this will be a staff-led interview today. As I described a little bit off the record 
16 before we got started, members of the select committee may be joining us, and I'm 
17 pleased that we have a member of our committee on right now. 
18 Good morning, Mr. Schiff. 
Mr. Schiff. Good morning. 19 
20 
21 Ms. - There we go. Apologize for speaking over you. 
So, if our members join, they'll do so remotely. We'll be able to see them on the 
22 participant screen there on the right-hand side. We'll also do our best to let you know if 
23 they join us and also to let the record reflect that they've joined. And they may, of 
24 course, ask questions when they do join. 
25 Again, my name is I serve as an investigative counsel on the staff of  1 
2 
3 the select committee, and I'm joined here in the room today by my colleague,_ 
who is a professional staff member for the committee. 
And, before we get started today, I'd like to go over some ground rules. As I 
4 described before we got started, these are the same that we cover with all of our 
5 witnesses, so thanks for your patience as I walk through them. 
6 So we have our official reporters here. They're transcribing the record of the 4 
7 interview. You and your attorneys will have an opportunity to review the transcript and 
8 suggest any corrections before it's finalized. 
9 And, as you know, this interview today is being videotaped, and the Webex 
10 portion is being recorded, but the official reporter's transcript is going to be the official 
11 record of the proceeding today. 
12 So some kind of best practices for these type of interviews: We'll ask that you 
13 please wait until each question is finished before you begin your response, and I also will 
14 try not to speak over you, to let you finish your answer before I ask the next question. 
15 That is to be able to create as clean a transcript record as possible. 
16 Our official reporters also cannot record nonverbal responses, such as shaking or 
17 nodding your head. So we'll ask that you answer with an audible, verbal response. 
18 And, although this is a transcribed interview, it's not under oath. I want to 
19 remind you, as we remind all of our witnesses, that it is unlawful to deliberately provide 
20 false information to Congress. Do you understand that? 
21 
22 Ms. Moss. Yes. 
Ms.- Thank you. So, as we go through our discussion today, it's 
23 important that you understand our questions and are able to answer them to the best of 
24 your ability. So, to that end, please don't hesitate to ask me to repeat myself if my 
25 questions are not clear or if it would be helpful to rephrase the question.  5 
1 And, similarly, if you don't know the answer to a question, please do say you don't 
2 know it, or if you can't recall, then please say that as well. 
3 We do have your attorneys here today too. So, if there's anything that I ask you 
4 that you have any concerns, you can, of course, take a break to confer with them. We 
5 can do that off the record here in the room or if you'd like to take some time back in the 
6 holding room, to have a longer conversation, we can arrange for that too. 
7 And, as we go through the process, I don't think --we'll try not to keep you overly 
8 long here today, but if you need a break for any other reason, to get up, walk around, or 
9 take a bathroom break, then just let us know. Okay? 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 Any questions before we get started? 
Ms. Moss. No. 
Ms~ Okay. 
Counsel, is there anything you would like to address before we go? 
Mr. Gottlieb. Just one thing I'd like to say. This is Mike Gottlieb from Willkie 
15 Farr. Ms. Moss is here appearing voluntarily today and, like Ms. Freeman yesterday, in 
16 that appearance does not waive nor intend to waive any applicable privileges that may 
17 apply to aspects of her ongoing litigation. 
18 Ms.- Great. Thank you. 
19 Okay, great. Before we get started, Ms. Moss, I understand you have something 
20 prepared that you'd like to share with us today. 
21 
22 
23 Ms. Moss. Yes. 
Ms.- Okay. Please go right ahead. 
Ms. Moss. Okay. Thank you for inviting me here today. My name is Wandrea 
24 ArShaye Moss, but some people call me Shaye, and I used to be an election worker. 
25 Almost everything else that people have heard about me is a lie, a lie that has changed  6 
1 everything. 
2 I never imagined that I would be testifying before a congressional committee 
3 because people have spread lies about me and --my family and me. 
4 I was born in Georgia, and I've lived there my whole life. My family has a long 
5 history of serving our community. I am the third generation in my family to sign up for 
6 public service. 
7 When I was growing up, my mom worked for Fulton County. My grandmother 
8 retired from DeKalb County. I knew that I wanted to follow in their footsteps. 
9 My first and only job was working for Fulton County Voter Registration and 
10 Elections. I worked there for more than 10 years. I loved my job, and I was really good 
11 at it. I even created new procedures to make our process faster and more accurate. 
12 made sure Georgia residents were properly registered to vote. 
13 When I was young, my grandmother made sure I knew how important it was to 
14 vote because it's an opportunity that a lot of my family before me did not have. 
15 I wanted to make sure that everyone had that opportunity. I especially love 
16 helping older voters. Younger voters could usually figure out how to register and vote 
17 on their own, but older people sometimes needed help. 
18 I remember even driving to a hospital once to help an elderly woman who wanted 
19 to request an absentee ballot. 
20 Registration forms and ballots aren't just pieces of paper to me. They represent 
21 real people, voters with disabilities, single parents, college students, Active Duty military 
22 members. 
23 I gave everyone my card so they have an actual person that they can contact 
24 instead of the office. I wanted them to know I valued their vote just as much as they 
25 did.  7 
1 My mom taught me that you do things the right way, not the easy way. And my 
2 job wasn't easy. It's work that required patience. It required commitment too: 
3 checking, double checking, focusing on the details, and on a tight deadline. 
4 I was used to quietly doing my job, even if that meant waking up way too early, 
5 coming home late. I missed so many of my son's activities because I had to work. 
6 Whenever I missed something, I knew how lucky I was that my grandmother could fill in 
7 for me. I wanted to show my son that hard work would pay off. 
8 Ever since December 2020, my family has been under attack for doing my job. 
9 My mom too. We all have. See, my mother Ruby signed up to work with me in 2020 
10 as a temporary election worker. 
11 In the 2 weeks before the election, we worked from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., 7 days a 
12 week. During election week, we worked even longer shifts. After the election, we 
13 were so proud of a job well done, and my mom was proud of me. 
14 But, in early December, former President Trump, Rudy Giuliani, and their allies 
15 start spreading terrible lies about my mother and me. They said we snuck ballots into 
16 the State Farm Arena in a suitcase. 
17 That's not true. 
18 They said we lied about a water main break to kick observers out. 
19 That's not true. 
20 They said we counted ballots multiple times to try to steal an election. 
21 That's not true. 
22 And they said we passed around a flash drive to try to hack a machine. 
23 That's not true. 
24 The thing they got so excited about, that my mom passed to me, was a ginger 
25 mint, her favorite candy.  1 
2 None of the lies are true. They don't even make sense. 
Why do I say it doesn't make sense? You can't just walk a suitcase full of fake 8 
3 ballots into a counting facility in Fulton County. We have a system in place to make sure 
4 every vote counts. 
5 Information on the envelope has to match the information from the real voters. 
6 Information from the precincts has to match the total votes counted. You can't just 
7 invent large numbers of votes or voters, especially in the system with hand recounts, 
8 cameras everywhere, campaign officials, State election officials monitoring your every 
9 move. 
10 We knew we were watched. We expected it. We welcome it. For the same 
11 reasons, you can't just count ballots multiple times. The discrepancy will show up in the 
12 ultimate count. 
13 And, as for the water leak, it was a real thing that happened with dozens of 
14 witnesses. But you can't say to people, like, you can't say much to people that think up 
15 is down. Right? I helped count ballots in 2016 when President Trump won and 2018 
16 when Stacey Abrams lost. 
17 I was proud of our work in those elections. It didn't matter to me who won or 
18 lost because I'm not a political person. The job was never about politics to me. It's 
19 about counting every vote. 
20 But none of that mattered. Former President Trump, Rudy Giuliani, and their 
21 allies just didn't like the outcome of the election. So they attacked us simply because 
22 we were doing our job. 
23 As a result, I've been threatened and harassed. One stranger told me I was lucky 
24 it's 2020 and not 1920. Another one told me that I should hang alongside my mom for 
25 committing treason.  9 
1 My son received some of those threats --a child --he heard horrible things about 
2 his mom just because I did my job. 
3 People showed up at my grandmother's home trying to bust the door down and 
4 conduct a citizen's arrest of my mom and me. The threats followed me to work. 
5 People would email the general email address for our office, so everyone could see the 
6 threats and hateful messages directed to me. 
7 These were people who didn't even know us. They didn't care about our 
8 dedication. They just refused to accept the outcome of the election. 
9 I have to live with this every single day. Before 2020, I was never scared of 
10 people knowing my name, but after, I stopped giving out my business cards to voters. 
11 Now I worry when I'm in the grocery store. I worry when I go shopping with my 
12 mom and she calls my name out across the aisle. I worry when I pick up the phone and 
13 a voice I don't recognize says my name. 
14 I feel responsible for what happened to my family, like, somehow it's all my fault 
15 because I chose to work as an election worker. I wanted to help, but I never imagined it 
16 would cause so much hurt. 
17 Like, can you imagine what it's like to feel responsible for your grandmother, your 
18 mother, your teenage son being threatened and lied about over and over again, to be 
19 singled out as a criminal, to be accused of treason in the only country you've ever called 
20 home? 
21 I didn't realize how much I loved my job until it was taken away from me by a few 
22 people who decided that their lie is more important than my life. 
23 But I'm here, I'm here today for more than myself and my family. I'm here to 
24 speak for the election workers out there who were, are, or will be threatened and 
25 attacked for just doing their jobs.  10 
1 I'm here today because I want the truth to be heard. Nobody should have to go 
2 through what I've been through, especially not our election workers who do the heavy 
3 lifting our democracy depends on. 
4 They don't receive the recognition or respect for the service that they provide this 
5 country. Vet they showed up, I showed up, every single day, every single election. I've 
6 never missed one election in 10 years. 
7 I'm here because this has to stop. The people responsible for the lies need to be 
8 held accountable. Congress needs to take action. Congress needs to protect our 
9 election workers and protect the victims of disinformation, like my family and me. If it 
10 doesn't, I know there will be many more just like me. 
11 Because of the lies, my son has to grow up way too quickly. Because of the lies, 
12 there are some days I don't want to get out of bed. There are some days I want to curl 
13 up under the covers and disappear. Because of the lies, I've lost who I was, and I'll never 
14 be again able to do the work that I felt called to do. My life will never be the same. 
15 I had to just come to terms with the fact that there will always be people who 
16 believe these lies about me. Always. There will always be someone that believes I 
17 should be in prison or that I should be dead. There's no way to fix what happened to 
18 me, and I'm here to tell my truth and to help make sure this never happens to anyone 
19 else. 
20 
21 
22 
23 My loss has got to be for something. Thank you. 
Ms~ Thank you very much, Ms. Moss. 
Ms. Moss. Thank you. 
Ms.- Take all the time you need. If you want to take a break before we 
24 continue on, that's perfectly fine too. 
25 Ms. Moss. I can do it.  11 
1 Ms.- Okay. Well, first, I just want to thank you for your service as an 
2 election worker throughout the 10 years that you just described to us, and I hope we'll 
3 have an opportunity to learn a little bit more about your work with Fulton County and 
4 your background. So thank you for that. 
5 But thank you very much for the courage that you have shown since then and the 
6 courage that I know it takes to come here and speak with us. That was very moving. 
7 I regret that I will ask you a bunch of questions following up on it because I'm not 
8 sure I can improve much upon that. So thank you very much and thanks for being here. 
9 I also just want to note before we get started that, you know, we're going to go 
10 over --I'd like to go back over some of the facts and get a little bit more of a sense of 
11 what it was like for to you have gone through this. I know those might be difficult things 
12 to think about and talk about. We appreciate you doing so here today. 
13 But I also don't want you to have to talk about anything in this context that might 
14 make the trauma that you've gone through any worse. So, if any of my questions do go 
15 over a line that you're not comfortable talking about, I hope that you'll let me know and 
16 let your lawyers know. We can talk through it. Does that make sense? 
17 Ms. Moss. Yeah. 
18 Ms- Okay, great. 
19 Mr. Schiff, I see your camera's off --is there anything you would like to say before 
20 we get started? 
21 Mr. Schiff. I just wanted to take this opportunity to thank you for your incredible 
22 service to the people of Fulton County, the people of Georgia, and around the country. 
23 Thank you for the courage you've demonstrated. Thank you for speaking out on behalf 
24 of election workers around the country, all too many others of whom are facing threats as 
25 well.  12 
1 As I mentioned to your mom, I'm very, very alarmed at what you and your family 
2 have gone through. No one should have to go through that and endure what you have. 
3 I can relate to part of what you've experienced, the threats that I and my family 
4 have received also. So your words really resonate with me. 
5 But I want to thank you for coming in today to talk about these events. As hard 
6 as they may be to talk about, it's important that we really bring to the attention of the 
7 American people what's happened in this country and the danger to our democracy. 
8 We need people like yourself who just count the ballots, do what they're 
9 supposed to do, and there's a real danger to that process with what happened to you and 
10 your family. 
11 So thank you again for coming in today. Thank you for your service over the 
12 years, and I'm sorry for what you and your family have had to go through as a result. 
13 
14 
15 
16 Ms. Moss. Thank you, sir. 
Q EXAMINATION 
BYMS.-: 
Okay. So, Ms. Moss, I'd like to start at the beginning a little bit, and my 
17 questions today I think will be organized. I want to give you a little bit of an overview. 
18 I would love to just talk little bit about your work for Fulton County, how you became 
19 involved, and what your work entailed on previous elections, and then talk a little bit 
20 about the 2020 election, and then how you learned of the lies that were being told about 
21 you and sort of the, you know, factual --the facts about what happened in December, in 
22 particular, 2020, leading up to January 6th. 
23 And then, at the end, I would plan to talk with you a little bit more about the 
24 impact on your family, the types of threats that you've received, which I know you've 
25 described to us getting started here, but maybe if we can get a little bit more detail about  1 that at the end, if you're comfortable. That would be helpful. 
2 
3 
4 
5 A Okay. 
Q Does that make sense? 
A Yes. 
Q Okay. So I know you've told us that you worked for the Fulton County 
6 Registration and Elections Department, I think you said, for 10 years. Is that right? 
A Over 10 years, yes. 13 
7 
8 Q Over 10 years. Okay. So tell me, how did you first become employed by 
9 the Fulton County Registration and Elections Department? 
10 A Well, I first became employed, well, because my mom was working Fulton 
11 County, and she informed me that they were hiring for temps and said: If you do good, 
12 they might hire you permanently. 
13 And I just always kept that in mind, and, like I said, my grandmother worked for 
14 the county. So I did it; I applied, received an interview, and was hired as a temporary 
15 elections worker. 
16 Q And, when you were first hired, did you work just around election day, or 
17 were you there for the entirety of the year? 
18 A Well, when I was first hired, like, September 25th, 2011, and it was for the 
19 November election that was coming up in 2011. And so we were --most of the temps 
20 were released in December, and I was called back in February. And, in 2012, we had a 
21 few elections, and they just let me stay on for the whole year basically. 
22 And, by then, I got to know people, learned, like, different people jobs, what they 
23 do, you know, tried to help them with the work so I could learn. And, after that, I was 
24 one of the main temps that they're going to call back every year. 
25 Q That's great. What type of jobs did you do, either around election day itself  14 
1 or leading up to it? 
2 A Well, leading up to elections, we're always processing voter registration 
3 applications, whether they are by mail, through the Department of Driver Services, 
4 through OLVR, online voter registration. So we're just trying to process, because it's a 
5 registration deadline before the election. 
6 So, once the deadline comes, now we're processing absentee applications. And 
7 we all have to go to poll worker training. 
8 And then I was a part of the mail room crew, basically stuffing, and, you know, we 
9 have the machines to stuff the ballots and mail them off. And that's what I would do, 
10 and receive them back and give, you know, give the voters credit for voting. And so that 
11 was the main job that I was doing. 
12 And then that's the same, like, crew, so to speak, basement crew, that will take 
13 the ballots to whichever location, you know, they want us to take them to and start to 
14 tabulate. So it's literally been all I've done the entire time. That's what I 
15 was --enjoyed the most. 
16 Q That's what I was going to ask you. So what was it about your job, I know 
17 you said in your remarks at the beginning here that you loved the job. Tell us a little bit 
18 more about that. What did you love about it? 
19 A Well, I loved that --you know, it was my first job, and I love that they 
20 thought I was valuable. So I'm an only child. I think it's this only child thing, that we 
21 don't want to work the hardest way. I'd rather work on finding a way to make this 
22 easier. So I was that person for them. 
23 I would, you know, do Excel files and different things to help whatever task we 
24 were doing to make it easier and, you know, become the best at it. 
25 And I just found the love for the ballots. I like working with the machines.  1 That's something that you don't do on a normal job. And that's what I like, getting 
2 trained to work on all the machines. 
3 
4 I didn't --I'm not a sit-at-a-desk-type of girl. You know, I could do it, but, yeah. 
Q That's great. And I think you said earlier that you had interaction directly 
5 with voters helping them to complete their either registration or the absentee ballot 
6 applications. Is that right? 
Yes. 15 
7 
8 A 
Q So tell me about those interactions. What did you enjoy about interacting 
9 with voters in Fulton County? 
10 A Well, everyone has a desk and you have your own direct number. So you 
11 always have to have your phone on ready. So, when the calls come in to the office, you 
12 know, you pick up the calls. 
13 And that's where you help the voters, mainly older people are the ones who are 
14 going to call and get help because now you can do everything on the computer, on your 
15 phone, and, I mean, or cell phone. They don't like that. 
16 They want you to mail them their precinct card: I want you to put an application 
17 in the mail for me. 
18 And I know what it's like trying to get through to companies and automated 
19 systems. So I wanted them to --I wanted to first help them over the phone and then 
20 give them my card so, if they have any questions, they can reach me directly. 
21 And, after doing that for a few years, you have a lot of people that are just, like, 
22 calling you: It's that time again, Ms. Moss. Can you send me some? And I need one 
23 for my son too, he's in college now. 
24 You know, that just became what I do. 
25 And people come to the front desk as well, and, you know, I would treat them the  16 
1 same way so they would come to the front, say: Is Ms. Moss here? 
2 And that's what I love, being the one that could make everything okay for them. 
3 They come in upset, and they leave, like, so happy. That's what I love. 
4 Q That's great. And the goal, I think you said this earlier, the goal is helping 
5 them to be able to have their voice, I think you said. 
6 
7 A 
Q Right. 
So tell me more about your comments at the beginning, about how those 
8 pieces of paper, what they resembled as far as the voters, the individual voters? 
9 A It resembles a lot. It's them. It's the person. So it's a whole lifeline to 
10 me. Like, they will call, say an elderly woman will call and say: I am no longer able to 
11 go vote. I'm immobile. Can I vote from home? 
12 Yes, ma'am. I will send you an application, and you fill it out, and you mail it 
13 back to me. And I'm going to give you a postage --you know, the postage is paid and 
14 everything. I'm putting everything in the envelope along with my card. If you need 
15 help filling it out, let me know. 
16 So, in the mail room, we're getting everything that comes that day. Say, if we 
17 get a hundred applications that day, we have to have it on the dashboard for the 
18 secretary of state to see, on this date, we have a hundred applications. 
19 Those applications will get that date put on them, and then, when I put it in the 
20 system to give them a ballot, they keep their date. When I mail them their ballot, it has 
21 their date. When it comes back, I have their new date. And, if they go to their record 
22 on My Voter Page, that's how you're able to see your election, the day it was issued, the 
23 day it was received, and then the day you got credit. So that --that was our process. 
24 That's what I love. 
25 Q Well, I could tell that you --I think you described working your way up and  1 clearly had a very good handle on all of the rules and regulations and it seems took the 
2 administration of the process very seriously. Is that fair? 
3 
4 A 
Q Yes. 
And tell me --I mean, to state the obvious, you're helping everyone who 
5 calls in seeking to register for vote, regardless of whether they're Democrat or 
6 Republican. Is that right? 
7 A Yes. I never know. We don't identify you by party in Georgia. You're 
8 just someone who wants an application to be able to vote. 
9 Q Great. Thank you. So I think at the beginning you mentioned that you 
10 had participated in several other kind of high-profile elections during your time with 17 
11 Fulton County. I know you mentioned the 2016 Presidential election as well as the 2018 
12 election for Governor in Georgia. Is that right? 
13 
14 A 
Q Yes. 
So tell us about the process for the Presidential election in 2016, and what 
15 was your role in the counting tabulation process that election day? 
16 A Well, it was --basically everything was the same. It all was the same. My 
17 role was the same. I've always did the same thing. I --you know, we first get there, 
18 we train everyone on how to use the machines, and we just get to work. 
19 I was just the one that's hopping around to make sure, you know, if someone had 
20 questions or needed help. But, in 2016 and '18, then we were printing the ballots, and 
21 that's mainly what I was doing. I was stuck at the printer all the time and then just 
22 helping, you know, if someone might've needed help. I had my supervisors, and the 
23 chiefs were there those years. 
24 Q Okay. Thanks. And the 2018 Governor's race was quite close if I 
25 remember correctly. Is that right?  Yes, uh-huh. 
And there was a recount afterwards? 
Uh-huh. 
Were you involved in that process as well? 
Yes. 18 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q So tell us a little bit about that. How did the --I assume --well, what's the 
7 impact that such a close race and a recount has on you all as election workers? 
8 A I mean, it's just part of the job. It's something that's very common when 
9 it's close and what we have to do. So basically for the election, election day, we hire a 
10 lot of temps to help out with the process. 
11 But usually when they want a recount, all the temps are gone, and it's just us. So 
12 it's interesting for the recount because we're teaching our fellow permanent staff how to 
13 do this, ones that, you know, usually don't this on the regular. 
14 So it's always rewarding to teach someone something new and show them 
15 another part of the process that, you know, they're involved with. 
16 Q So let's talk a little bit about election day, November 3rd, 2020, this most 
17 recent Presidential election. So tell us about the election day itself. You know, I know 
18 you said that being an election worker requires a lot of early mornings and late nights 
19 especially on election day itself. So what time did you get to the State Farm Arena that 
20 day? 
21 
22 
23 A 
Q 
A 5:30 a.m. 
And how did the day go for you? What was the day like? 
It was one of our typical election days. What do you want to know about 
24 the day, like, what? It was a long day. 
25 Q Quite typical is understandable. It was a long day; you were working hard.  19 
1 And tell me, just generally, what was your role, what part of the tabulation process were 
2 you responsible for that day? 
3 A So, by election day, I'm just overseeing everything. Everyone shouldn't 
4 have any questions on how to use the machinery, or, you know, I'm just overseeing and 
5 making sure everything is flowing. 
6 I'm signing in the ballots, of course, that are coming from the government center, 
7 telling people, you know: Lunch is here. Yes, you can take a break. Or, yes, you can 
8 go outside, use your phone. 
9 Just, you know, the typical things helping them, that's about it. 
10 Q And the process that was going on at the State Farm Arena tabulation center 
11 was specifically counting, tabulating absentee ballots in Fulton County. Is that right? 
12 
13 A 
Q Correct. 
Okay. How did the number of absentee ballots in the 2020 election 
14 compare to previous elections? 
15 A The 2020 election was more than I've ever seen. I thought the first Trump 
16 election was more than I ever seen. It was a lot of absentee, but I can't even --it was a 
17 lot. And, you know, those applications first, there was just --we had a room full, like, 
18 literally to the ceiling of applications, so the ballots were unbelievable. They were a lot. 
19 Q Got it. Did Fulton County have extra staff hired for this election, for the 
20 absentee ballots? 
21 
22 A 
Q Yes. The biggest staff I've had, yes. 
That's great. So how did the rest of the day go? I know that you stayed 
23 there counting quite late in the evening. Did you perceive it as a normal election day 
24 that you were --had been involved with before? 
25 A Yes.  20 
1 Q Okay. So when, after election day, did things start changing for you? 
2 When did you perceive that something --these lies that you've told us about, that we 
3 know about through our investigation, when did they start? When did you start 
4 becoming aware of them? 
5 A Well, I was at work on December 4th, and the registration chief brought me 
6 into his office, and in his office was the director of registration. And they told me to sit 
7 down, turned the camera around --turned their computer around, and clicked a link and 
8 played a video. 
9 It was a video of my coworkers and myself at State Farm Arena and asked me have 
10 I heard about this or seen about this, you know, have I been getting harassed or threats 
11 or --and I was in shock. I didn't --I was, like: No, I haven't heard about any of this. 
12 And --said: You haven't been getting any threats? 
13 Said they are all over all my social media. 
14 So, you know, I really don't use anything but lnstagram, and so, on lnstagram, I 
15 had like hundreds and hundreds of people requesting to get into my lnstagram, but at 
16 that time, the chief said they were in his Facebook. 
17 So I went to Facebook, and then I was, like: Oh, how do you see your messages 
18 on Facebook? 
19 
20 
21 
22 And he said: It's a whole different app called Messenger. 
I'm, like: Oh, okay. 
So I went to Messenger, and I just saw a flood of messages. 
And I'm not sure if you're aware of how the messages look. It's like when you 
23 open it, you can just see the first few words of each message. And I'm scrolling down, 
24 and I can tell it's not nice, see a lot of the N word, "treason," and, you know, all of these 
25 things.  21 
1 So I didn't want to get into deep into it while I'm in the office with the director and 
2 the chief. So I'm, like: Oh, yes, they are all over my social media. What's going on? 
3 And, you know, they were saying: It's some lies, you know. Don't worry about 
4 it. It's nothing. 
5 And, you know, I was under the impression, like, by the end of the week, this is 
6 going to be, you know, thrown out, like, it doesn't make any sense. 
7 That is when I found out. They told me to check on my family, and unfortunately 
8 I did, and they were receiving the same things too. I went home and just was crying 
9 because then I had the chance to look at them and read them and see how much people 
10 hated me. 
11 All the sacrifices I made to make all this happen every single year, multiple times a 
12 year a lot and --yeah, I was crying, called my best friend for comfort, and she's, like: Oh, 
13 you know, some people called my phone talking about you. Are you okay? Are you 
14 safe right now? 
15 And then my son comes in the room, and it's like I'm just distraught at this point. 
16 He's like: What's going on, mom? Are you okay? 
17 And I was showing him, you know, the things. And, at this time, he's 14, I 
18 want --I'm always upfront with him. And he says: Oh, that's why those people have 
19 been calling and messaging my phone. 
20 My son. 
21 So that's when I --that's when I first found out, and, you know, I noticed --well, 
22 Rudy Giuliani is who put out the video. And then, that morning, Gateway Pundit put out 
23 my name, and that's how they were able to, you know, find me. Because I was, like, the 
24 video was silent, how do you, you know, know me? 
25 We're wearing masks, and I have these long braids, and, you know, looking tired,  22 
1 like how --and that is how --that's how I found out everything, and it's, like, overnight 
2 literally --literally --everything changed. 
3 Q Thank you. I'd like to ask you a couple of followup questions about that if 
4 you don't mind. You mentioned that you were at work and you got pulled into a 
5 meeting by the director and the chief. Who were those individuals? What were their 
6 names? 
7 A Ralph Jones and Richard Barron. 
8 Q Okay. And what did the video that they showed you on the computer, 
9 what did it look like? What do you remember seeing? 
10 A It looked like the video we would see every time we entered or exit the 
11 building. We knew we were being recorded. It looked like someone took part of the 
12 recording. 
13 Q So it was, like, a surveillance video. Did it have the four different views 
14 showed on the same screen? 
15 
16 A 
Q Uh-huh. 
Okay. And so tell me a little bit about that. You said that you knew that 
17 the process was being recorded, the tabulation process. In your experience as an 
18 election worker, what are the --how did you know that you were being recorded, and 
19 what were the levels of security and supervision of the process? 
20 A Well, we are always recorded. Usually it's, like, these guys that set up this 
21 recording, looks like a recording TV little studio. And we just work around them. 
22 But, since we were in the nice arena where the Hawks play, they had built-in 
23 cameras, you know, in the ceiling. So it's always, like, we're always recorded, and 
24 there's always a recorder there from start to finish, every single day. 
25 Q And, during the tabulation process, is it correct that there are members of  23 
1 the media there and also observers from the political parties that watch what you're 
2 doing. Is that right? 
3 A Yes. They take shifts. Yes, they're always there. I always give them our 
4 leftover lunches and breakfast and try to, you know, keep them happy and have to stop 
5 and explain things to them. I want to make sure everything is transparent. 
6 But I also have a secretary of state monitor that's always with me, literally. Even 
7 asks me, like: Where are you going? 
8 
9 
10 
11 I'm going to the rest room. 
It's, like: Oh, okay. 
And he writes everything down, and he's always with me. 
Q Okay. So, when you're in your supervisor's --or the director and the chief's 
12 office there looking at the video, did you learn where this video had come from? 
13 
14 
15 A 
Q 
A Uh-huh. 
What did they tell you? 
They told me that it's circulating around on the internet and everywhere, 
16 and people are saying that we're trying to steal an election. 
17 Q And did they give you a sense for whether they thought that that was true or 
18 false? 
19 A Well, we all knew it was false because that's why --I was, like: But how and 
20 why? 
21 And was like: Because they can. 
22 And, you know, said: It's nothing. Don't worry about it. It's just lies. 
23 But they got worse. 
24 Q Yeah, understood. You mentioned that you learned that Rudy Giuliani, the 
25 President's lawyer, had posted or promoted the video. How did you learn of that?  1 
2 A 
Q 24 
They told me that. 
They told you. And then that Gateway Pundit had published your name. 
3 And is that how you think that people started to find you to reach out to you in the ways 
4 that you described to us? 
5 
6 
7 
8 A 
Q 
A 
Q Yes. 
Okay. 
Same day. 
Did you ever come to learn that there had been a hearing of the State senate 
9 where this video had been played and Mr. Giuliani, as well as other people, had made 
10 comments about what the video showed? 
11 
12 
13 A 
Q 
A Yes. 
Do you remember what those were? 
Not --like, I remember --it wasn't nothing nice, like, we're drug dealers and 
14 stuff like that. 
15 Q Yeah. I thought in the first time that Mayor Giuliani was at the State senate 
16 hearing, it was on December 3rd, 2020, and he --there was another Trump campaign 
17 lawyer, a volunteer, who had played this long video, the surveillance video. 
18 And Mr. Giuliani later commented about it during that hearing and said: When 
19 you look at what you saw in the video, which to me was a smoking gun --described it as a 
20 powerful smoking gun. 
21 I wonder what you --when you learned of that, what your reaction was to it? 
22 A My reaction to that, it was mainly just like everything else. I was in 
23 disbelief that such a, for lack of a better word, stupid lie is just circulating around and 
24 their supporters and allies are, like, running with it and believing it. I really felt like we 
25 were just a scapegoat, like. It's hard to describe exactly how you --I had so many  25 
1 emotions, but --
2 Q Understood. After you had that meeting with your elections chief and the 
3 director, did there come a time where you had a meeting with law enforcement officers 
4 about the circumstances of this video? 
5 
6 A 
Q Yes. 
How long after that initial meeting where you learned about the video, when 
7 did the interview take place? 
8 
9 
10 to ask? A Like, within a week or two. Right away. 
Ms.~ Mr. Schiff, I see your video on. Is there something you would like 
11 Mr. Schiff. Yes, I just wanted to follow up on a couple things. 
12 The Giuliani testimony was on December 3rd. And, Ms. Moss, did you say what 
13 day it was that you were brought in to your colleagues' office and played a video? 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 Ms. Moss. The 4th. 
Mr. Schiff. I don't recall whether you mentioned the day that that happened. 
Ms. Moss. Yes, sir. December 4th. 
Mr. Schiff. Okay. So it was the day after Giuliani's testimony. 
And the video that you were shown, was it --it was footage from the surveillance 
19 cameras. Was there any audio attached to it, or what exactly was on the video? 
20 Ms. Moss. No, it didn't have any audio. It just showed us working that election 
21 night, just the few of us that were left. 
22 Mr. Schiff. And so, when one of your supervisor asked you, have you seen this, 
23 was it just the video, or was he also referring to the social media postings about the 
24 video? 
25 Ms. Moss. Right. He was asking if I seen this, like, around on social media or  26 
1 anything. And that's when I was, like: No, I wasn't aware of that. 
2 
3 
4 And that's when he said: Well, have you been getting threats or harassments. 
And I said: No. 
But he showed me where to find them, and I had been getting them. But my son 
5 was the one who received it also, his phone. 
6 Mr. Schiff. And your supervisor showed you on your own social media where the 
7 threats were coming in? 
8 Ms. Moss. No. He showed me how to --okay. So, when you go to the 
9 Face book app, it's just Face book. 
10 
11 Mr. Schiff. Yeah. 
Ms. Moss. If you want to see the messages someone sent you on Face book, he 
12 showed me how to go to the other app that I didn't know about, called Messenger. 
13 
14 
15 Mr. Schiff. Yeah. 
Ms. Moss. Sorry, I don't use Facebook. 
Mr. Schiff. You know, I do use Facebook, but I can't say I understand it perfectly 
16 either. But these were comments directed to you at a public page on Facebook? 
17 
18 
19 Ms. Moss. On my --on my Facebook page. 
Mr. Schiff. Okay. 
Ms. Moss. Yes, I have a Facebook. I just don't use it. So it was like they knew 
20 my name and searched my name, clicked on "send a message," and sent the message. 
21 Mr. Schiff. And how did your supervisors know that there was this sort of 
22 torrent of hate on your Facebook page? Did they ever tell you how it came to their 
23 attention? 
24 Ms. Moss. Well, he said --when I told him that I wasn't aware of anything until 
25 just now, he said they have been attacking him on Facebook, they've been attempting to  27 
1 get to his mother's house, and --this was Mr. Jones. 
2 And then Mr. Barron said: Yes, they --they're sending me harassments and 
3 threats. 
And I was just, like: What? People can do that? 4 
5 And I guess this has happened to them before. So he told me, you know, where 
6 to look, and then that prompted me to just look at my lnstagram and then looked at 
7 Twitter and then just start searching on line and reading comments, which I shouldn't 
8 have done, but, yes. 
9 Mr. Schiff. Yeah. I know that feeling. I had a son around the same age --I 
10 have a son around the same age who went through what we went through around the 
11 same time. How is your son doing now? 
12 Ms. Moss. He's getting much better. Like I said, he's had to really grow up 
13 really fast. So he's 15 now, but he feels like he has to protect me in every aspect. He's 
14 became, like, much more aware, not like a kid, you know, that just doesn't care. Like, he 
15 wants to know what's that in the mailbox, and he's just, sad to say, it's like he turned 
16 from 14 to 21 overnight, like mentally. 
17 But they were in school --they were virtual then when that happened. So I felt 
18 like he had more time, you know. It was --it was really bad. 
19 Mr. Schiff. And so there was all this social media hate against your two 
20 supervisors, against you, against your mom. It showed up on your son's social media as 
21 well? 
22 
23 
24 Ms. Moss. So, at 14, he cannot have social media. No, huh-uh. 
Mr. Schiff. That's a safe choice. 
Ms. Moss. He had just --he just received a phone. I finally let him have a 
25 phone, because boys can be boys. And, you know, because I was --it was, like, four  28 
1 elections that year. I was always at work, and when it's election, it's overtime. 
2 So I wanted, you know, to be able to contact him. And school was virtual. It 
3 was COVID. He was at home. So I let him have a phone, but I gave him my old phone, 
4 and then I just got a new phone. 
5 So they found my social media, but my address is why they ended up at my 
6 grandmother's house. And my phone number is why they were all on my son's phone 
7 and knocking him out of class all day because he was virtual. And I'm sorry; election 
8 workers don't get paid that much. I cannot afford WiFi. So he uses the hotspot on the 
9 cell phone to be on the Chromebook to go to school. And, yeah, he failed every class 
10 that year. First time ever. 
11 
12 
13 
14 Mr. Schiff. So sorry to hear it. Thank you. 
-I yield back to you. 
Ms.- Thank you, Mr. Schiff. 
BYMS.-: 
15 Q So, Ms. Moss, just to make sure I understood the last point that you shared 
16 with us. So you had given your son a phone that you used to be associated with you and 
17 your phone number. So, when this hate started being directed at you, some of it 
18 actually was initially received by your son on the phone that he was using for school at 
19 that time. Is that right? 
20 
21 A 
Q Right. 
Okay. And I wanted to just go back to that initial meeting that you were 
22 just discussing with Mr. Schiff, with your supervisors. And I wondered when you first 
23 spoke with your mom, Ms. Freeman, about this. 
24 A I spoke with her, it was around that same --that same time when she, you 
25 know, told me that she's receiving the same --the same thing, and they're coming to her  1 house. And, you know, my grandmother was calling me. It was all around the 
2 same --the same time. 
3 Q So your mom was working at State Farm Arena with you that evening, and 
4 she was also shown on the video that you learned that Mayor Giuliani had played in the 
5 hearing. Is that right? 
6 
7 
8 
9 A 
Q 
A 
Q Yes. 
Okay. And so she immediately started receiving threats as well? 
Yes. 
Okay. So, going back to that early December time period, so I think 
10 December 3rd, as Mr. Schiff just said, was this date where Mr. Giuliani was involved in 
11 this video for the first time. And then, December 4th, the next day, you had a meeting 
12 with your supervisors. 
13 Did you then, after that, meet with law enforcement officers, agents from local 
14 law enforcement, or the secretary of state's office? 
Yes. 
And when was that, if you remember? 
Within that week or two. 
Okay. And tell me, how did that meeting come about? 29 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A Well, my --Mr. --my director informed us that we would have to meet with 
20 them, and then, when that day came, we went to a room sort of like this. So everyone 
21 that was working with me that was in the video came, and we met with the county 
22 attorney, the secretary of state monitor --investigator --I'm sorry --the investigator was 
23 there, the FBI, the GBI. 
24 They met with us, just gave us a briefing first, telling us what to experience, and 
25 then they separated us in different offices, like not even on the same floor. And they  30 
1 would --they went and questioned each of us. 
2 Q All right. So tell me about that process. What were the types of things 
3 that they were asking you about? 
4 A Well, they basically had pictures of the video that Rudy Giuliani put out and 
5 just basic questions, asking me: Who are these people? What are they doing right 
6 now? What are we doing in these pictures? 
7 
8 
9 And that's it. 
Q About how long did they speak with you that day? 
A I would say probably about an hour, and that was, like, with the briefing and 
10 the waiting for them to come, everything total, probably about an hour. 
11 Q And how did it feel? What was your experience like to have to talk with 
12 them about these events? 
13 A It felt great. It felt like we're taking a step into, like, getting rid of all of 
14 these lies. Finally someone that has some type of authority is now handling this and can 
15 speak on our behalf and help us out with the truth. 
16 Q And what happened after your interview? Did you have any further 
17 interaction with those law enforcement agencies? 
18 
19 
20 A No. They just gathered that everything that they were told was a lie. 
Q And did you learn about the conclusions of their investigation? 
A Well, I learned when the secretary of state, and, you know, they just 
21 debunked everything, said that it was just all a lie; we did nothing wrong. 
22 Q Did you see any change in the amount of the threats or the hate that was 
23 directed at you after it became --those officials, you know, made public statements that 
24 it was a lie? 
25 A No.  31 
1 Q Did the --did the --did you see other instances of people promoting the lie 
2 after that point? 
3 A Yes. It spread. Yes. Every --everyone that was messaging and 
4 sent --like, none of it really stopped. They still felt the same way. After he said that 
5 we did nothing wrong, it did not stop them for --from, you know, believing all those lies. 
6 Q Okay. I wanted to ask you a couple of questions about other instances 
7 where President Trump and his associates, his allies, again, promoted or restated these 
8 lies about you. 
9 One, in particular, jumps out at me. President Trump appeared in Georgia at a 
10 campaign rally in the first week of December, on December 6th, 2020. Were you aware 
11 of him coming to campaign for the Senate runoffs? 
12 
13 A 
Q 
14 evening? 
15 A Yes. 
Did you come to learn about any role that these lies played in his speech that 
Yes. He talked about it. 
16 Q Yeah, I think this is the case actually where he stopped his speech in the 
17 middle of it to play a news clip? 
18 
19 
20 A 
Q 
A He played it on a big screen and --uh-huh. 
Did you watch the speech either live or later? 
No, I did not, but I received, like, messages and stuff and screenshots. And, 
21 you know, people at work felt like they needed to tell me: He's talking about you again. 
22 Yeah. 
23 Q What was your reaction when you learned that the President had mentioned 
24 these events and shown that video during his speech? 
25 A I mean, I became concerned, you know, for my mom and my grandmother  32 
1 and my son. I didn't want him to keep saying the lies to make the people, you know, 
2 angry and come after us. And so I was upset. I was afraid. I was hurt. I was in 
3 disbelief. You know, I just mainly was, like, in disbelief, like, what?  33 
1 
2 [12:00 p.m.] 
3 BYMS.-: 
4 Q Did you --did you see --did the threats and the hate that was being directed 
5 at you --did it continue after that point? 
6 
7 A 
Q Yes. It's --it's not went away to this day. 
Could you tell any --any impact that --after --were there any changes of 
8 increased, you know, threats, or anything after those very public statements by the 
9 President? 
10 A Not --not an increase. It just seems just to always be there. It's like it's 
11 always someone who's, you know, saying those things. It wasn't really a --an increase 
12 or --you know, I didn't notice anything like that. I just knew he's still out here saying 
13 these lies, and he's public and bold about it, and his allies and supporters are just as 
14 public and bold about a lie. Yeah. 
15 Q So I wanted to ask you about another instance where --that was pretty 
16 widely publicized at the time where these lies came up again and were promoted by the 
17 President himself. That was on a phone call with Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger. 
18 Do you remember that? 
19 A Yes. 
20 Q So I think the call took place on January 2, 2021, and it became public shortly 
21 thereafter. So I wonder if you remember --if you remember where you were and how 
22 you learned about this --the phone call? 
23 A No, I don't remember where I was or really how I learned of the call. 
24 mean, I knew about it. I --you know, I still was working with elections. We were 
25 preparing for a new election that I --yeah, I was aware. People talk and tell you, you  34 
1 know? But, no, I don't remember exactly where I was or, you know, anything like that. 
2 Q So there was a runoff in Georgia just a few --planned for a few days after. 
3 think it was January 5th. Is that right? 
4 
5 A 
Q Yes. 
So this must have been a very --a sort of crunch time for you as an election 
6 worker. You were still working and preparing for that runoff race. Is that right? 
7 
8 A 
Q Yes. 
All right. So tell me, when you did learn about this call from --between the 
9 President and Secretary Raffensperger, what did you learn about it? 
10 A I learned that he said my mom's name, like, almost 20 times. I learned that 
11 he had no idea about the voting process, and he just wanted to win. And he was really 
12 trying to convince the secretary of state to help him do so. 
13 Q You mentioned that you learned that he mentioned your mom's name. 
14 think he --I think I recently counted. He said it --18 times, he said her name on the call. 
15 
16 A 
Q Uh-huh. 
What was your reaction? How did that make you feel, especially in light of 
17 all that you had already gone through? 
18 A I felt horrible. I felt like the worst daughter ever, you know? I felt like, if I 
19 wouldn't have ever decided to work for elections, my mom, my grandmother, my son, 
20 myself, we would not be in danger and spread lies about us all over social media and the 
21 world, like --I felt --I felt horrible. 
22 Q So we had the opportunity to speak with your mom a little bit yesterday, and 
23 she --she told us that she at some point around this time needed to leave her home for 
24 her own safety. 
25 Is that right? Do you remember that?  35 
Uh-huh. 1 
2 A 
Q So tell me what you know about that. How did --how did your mom come 
3 to the place where she couldn't stay in her own home because of safety concerns? 
4 A Well, people kept coming to her house, and, you know, she told me --the 
5 FBI told her that it just isn't safe anymore, and it would be a wise decision if you left. 
6 
7 Q 
A And how long was she --did she need to stay away from her house? 
I'm not sure. I'm not sure how long, because it seemed like forever. I'm 
8 really not sure. 
9 Q Uh-huh. Leading up --after the call with Secretary Raffensperger, there 
10 was --on the --leading up to the January 6th, did you perceive --did the threats that 
11 were being directed to you continue during that time period? 
12 
13 A 
Q Yes. 
Any change or increase in the amount of them or the level of attention on 
14 these issues after that phone call with Secretary Raffensperger? 
15 A I don't --I don't --I don't believe it was --I wasn't measuring, like, increase or 
16 decrease. 
17 Q Yeah. 
18 A It was just like: Wow, somebody's at my grandmother's house? Like, 
19 what --what do I do? You know, call the police, grandmother. 
20 And, you know, she would call me and was like: Shaye, are you being funny? 
21 Why would you send me a thousand pizzas? 
22 
23 And I'm like: What? 
And, you know, so I wasn't measuring or, like --was just like: Wow, something 
24 else horrible is happening because of this lie. 
25 And it's like: Wow.  1 
2 Like that's what I was thinking. 
Q So, stepping back from that time period leading up to January 6th but just 
3 throughout this time, I do want to get a little bit more information from you about the 
4 types of the threats and the impact on --in you and your family. 
5 
6 A Uh-huh. 
Q So I know you told us that initially you learned of this and you started 
7 receiving threatening messages through social media. Is that right? 
8 
9 A Uh-huh. 
Q And tell us about the other ways that people were --strangers, I assume, 
10 were contacting you and sending threatening messages? 
11 A Well, they would call my son's phone, like I stated, which knocking him out 
12 of his class. They would send voicemails, just breathing on the phone really hard, like 
13 trying to intimidate us. A lot of text messages on his phone. Like I said, going to my 
14 grandmother's house and saying they're looking for me: I know that Bis in there. 
15 Like I --she's on the phone with me and screaming to the top of her lungs, and I 
16 can hear them, like, banging on her --the old creek of the screen door. Yeah, my --on 
17 my social media, yep. 
18 Q And I think you said earlier that --that they went to your grandmother's 
19 house. Did they think that you lived there? 
20 A Correct. 36 
21 Q And tell us a little bit more about your grandmother and just about who she 
22 is and what impact this had on her for people to show up like that. 
23 A Well, my grandmother's a very strong woman. She's like 76 years old, and 
24 she has to get her 10,000 steps in a day. So she's not the type to let things stop her 
25 from doing what she wants to do.  37 
1 You know, I was telling her: You can't go walking around the neighborhood 
2 anymore. You need to be careful. 
3 And she didn't care about any of that. She's going to do, you know, the things 
4 she want to do. 
5 But she often would call me concerned about me, and that --that's what, you 
6 know, got to me. She was concerned about me and my son's well-being more than 
7 herself. She, you know --she's a widow. She's retired, DeKalb County and Sears, and 
8 she's a very strong woman, and she's like my backbone. 
9 She's the one that was able to help me with my son so I can be good at my career. 
10 Like, she joined the PTA at his school, went to all his teacher conferences, and would just 
11 leave the notes and the stuff for me to fill out. Like, everything. Pick him up from 
12 camp and summer school and, like --my grandmother's my everything. 
13 Q What were the --if you remember, are there any particular things that stuck 
14 out in your mind about what people who showed up at your grandmother's house, what 
15 they were saying? 
16 A That they want to arrest me, and they weren't officers. I was asking: Are 
17 they police? What do you mean, arrest? 
18 It's like: No. It's just this lady and this man, and I see another lady and man 
19 down the hill, and --yep. 
20 I just remembered they felt as though it would be legal for them to push 
21 themselves through someone's home and detain a member of that residence because of 
22 something they believe that they saw on line. 
23 Q Did you ever have to call the police about people who were at --showing up, 
24 either in person, or people that were contacting you? 
25 A I instructed her to call the police every single time when she said they were  38 
1 there. And I know, once, she said the police did show up, but the people, you know, had 
2 went ahead and left, you know. She was loud, you know, so they could hear when 
3 calling the police and telling them: I'm calling the police, and --
4 Q And I think you mentioned one --at least one instance where pizzas arrived 
5 at your grandmother's house. Is that right? 
6 
7 
8 A 
Q 
A Right. That was like three or four times. 
Three or four times? 
People would just deliver a lot of pizzas with hateful things in the name and 
9 have the pizza person coming to the door asking for that hateful name and, you know, 
10 saying she has to pay for these pizzas, and she has to, you know, explain to them that she 
11 did not order these. And, as she's doing that, she's seeing the next pizza guy come up 
12 the hill. 
13 Q And is this something that you understood was connected to the threats that 
14 you were receiving? 
15 
16 A 
Q Correct. 
Okay. To the extent you're comfortable, can you tell us a little bit about 
17 the types of threats that you received through --through the phone or voicemails that 
18 were left for you? I know you just said a minute ago that sometimes it was just 
19 somebody trying to intimidate you with heavy breathing. 
20 
21 A 
Q Uh-huh. 
Are there any specific, you know, words or phrases that you remember 
22 people using in this context to threaten you? 
23 A You should be glad it's 2020 and not 1920. You should hang with your 
24 mother for treason, and something about a firing squad for treason. And they would 
25 send like photos of things on fire, like burning flags and just --just hateful things, you  39 
1 know, saying I'm --I would die, and it's --something like it's legal for --I had to ask my 
2 lawyers that. They said it's like legal for you to be killed for treason. And just --just a 
3 lot of that. Either I'm going to jail, I'm going to die, and I committed treason, or just 
4 racist terms over --like literally over and over and over and over. 
5 Q Did you have to change your phone number, social media accounts, or 
6 anything like that because of the amount of threats that you were receiving? 
7 A Well, I changed my name on social media so that way, when they search 
8 what it was, it would, you know, come up as nothing. And I made everything private. 
9 I changed my hair. I used to always wear braids. Like everybody knows Shaye's 
10 going to wear braids all the time. Such an easy style, get up and go. But now I actually 
11 have to wear hair, be a girl. So I had to change that. 
12 I started wearing my nails longer. Just changed a lot of --a lot of things. Even 
13 with my son, he has long locks, and now I don't let him wear them out anymore, like how 
14 it was then. It's either always braided back --yeah, just braided back. So none of us 
15 look the same. 
16 
17 
18 Q 
A 
Q 
19 the video? 
20 
21 A 
Q I understand. So you've changed your whole appearance so -
Uh-huh. 
--people --is that because of people recognizing you because of what was in 
Uh-huh. Uh-huh. 
And I remember also looking at the original Senate hearing where this video 
22 was played, and they refer to a woman with blond braids. 
23 
24 
25 A 
Q 
A Uh-huh. 
Is that you? 
That's me. That's why I don't wear them anymore.  40 
1 Q So you're saying that you don't wear your hairstyle that way because they 
2 had identified you that way in the video? 
Correct. 
Okay. 3 
4 
5 A 
Q 
A Uh-huh. And I still had to work there --work at a government building with 
6 not just voter registration. It's all the government things: vital records, tags, tax records, 
7 and 911, everything. And you've been in one building for 10 years, all you have to say is 
8 the election worker with the blond braids; they know exactly who you're talking about. 
9 So it was very embarrassing, belittling. 
10 
11 Q Understandable. 
So I think you've said that this harassment has continued. It's almost a year and 
12 a half later now. So tell me about that. How --how are --what's your experience with 
13 this now? Is it continuing to this day? 
14 A Yes. Yes. I posted a video that I thought would be a happy video of me 
15 receiving an award, and some people in my comments said: It's not great what 
16 happened to your mom and your son, but as someone who has seen proof, why aren't 
17 you in prison? 
18 And, you know, I --of course, I'm going to respond, ask them, like: What? 
19 What do you mean? I did nothing wrong. What proof? 
20 And then they sent me screenshots from The Gateway Pundit. So I just deleted 
21 them, blocked her. We grew up together and went to --in high school together. 
22 Q Oh, you mean this is somebody that you knew who was reaching out to you 
23 this way? 
24 A Uh-huh. In my comments. Oh, for everyone on my page, family, and 
25 everyone to see.  1 Q So I think most of what we were talking about, threats coming in, were 
2 from --were from strangers. 
3 
4 A 
Q Uh-huh. 
But did this also have --did you experience members of your community 
5 that you knew who believed this lie? 41 
6 A This was the first time. It just happened a few weeks ago. First time ever, 
7 like uh-uh. 
8 Q And the video that you posted, is that from --I know you recently received 
9 the Profile in Courage Award at the JFK Library? 
10 
11 
12 
13 A 
Q 
A 
Q Yes. 
Is that the one? 
Uh-huh. 
I was able to see your remarks. I know our vice chair on the committee, 
14 Ms. Cheney, also --
15 
16 
17 
18 A 
Q 
A 
Q Oh, yeah. 
--received the award and delivered remarks. 
Yeah, she's so nice. 
Well, I know she was. And those of us, including Mr. Schiff, who had a 
19 chance to listen to your remarks, were very impressed by yours as well. 
20 
21 A 
Q 
22 manner. 
23 A Thank you. 
So tell me a little bit about the experience of being recognized in that 
It was literally overwhelming. Like, I've --I don't think I've ever 
24 experienced so much love, like, in one room. Everyone wanted to shake my hand. 
25 They wanted to meet me.  42 
1 I especially love Mr. Rusty. Like, he was my partner working around the room 
2 and everything. I mean, I loved it. It --it felt like, wow, I'm not alone, like there are 
3 some people who have a little common sense and not just going along with the go-along, 
4 you know? Like --and, like, wow, a lot of people went through what I went through. It 
5 was just a lot of wow moments. Like, I --I felt really appreciated. So many thank-yous. 
6 You know, it felt great to hear that. 
7 Q Well, I know you --I know you mentioned in your remarks here today 
8 something that I heard you talk about in that awards ceremony, and that was how you 
9 see yourself as one of the many election workers --
10 
11 A 
Q Uh-huh. 
--across the country. 
12 So could you talk with us a little bit about that, and what do you think that your 
13 experience means for election workers all over our country? 
14 A Well, so, you know, Fulton, the county I worked for forever, is the largest 
15 county in Georgia. So I have seen, like, people that were temps with me that are now 
16 directors at, like, different counties. And they all --if you worked in elections, you 
17 probably started as a temp, and we all know what it's like. And it could have happened 
18 to anyone. We were all doing the exact same thing with the exact same equipment with 
19 the exact same ballots. 
20 So I --you know, I want to let them know that, you know, we're no different. It 
21 could happen to anyone, and I'm here to have to go through this, you know, experience 
22 and get the truth out there so that it won't happen to you or any of your family members 
23 that want to follow in your footsteps. Like, you can do this job without being 
24 threatened and harassed and die. Like, you do your job, and you do it right. It's a 
25 great job. I loved it.  43 
1 Ms~ Mr. Schiff, I see you turned on your camera. Is there something 
2 you'd like to ask? 
3 Mr. Schiff. Yes. I just wanted to mention, Ms. Moss, that I watched the Profiles 
4 in Courage ceremony. You were wonderful, as was Mr. Bowers, Ms. Cheney, and 
5 others. And the acknowledgement of your courage was justified. It also, I think, was 
6 an important way to let other people know around the country facing similar threats and 
7 challenges that they can follow your example and be courageous. And I just wanted to 
8 mention that. 
9 I also just wanted to follow up on something you said, and that is you had a lot of 
10 strangers on social media, people who didn't know you, people who believed the lies that 
11 had been told on Gateway Pundit and by the former President, Giuliani. 
12 But you also mentioned an interaction, I think, that was someone who you did 
13 know recently who believed those lies. Did I understand you, that was the first time 
14 that that had happened, that someone you actually knew was believing that, or had that 
15 happened before? 
16 Ms. Moss. Yeah. No, sir. That was the first time that has ever happened. 
17 All of the hate and the messages and the harassments, those were from total strangers, 
18 like no one I know has even mentioned, you know, about it, because, you know, it's not 
19 something I'm going to post on my page or anything, but Jess (ph), my best friend, when I 
20 was telling that --when I first found out, she said they called her saying the same type of 
21 things, but I never experienced someone that I know telling me that they believed the lies 
22 that were told about me until --
23 Mr. Schiff. And, when you first encountered them, what was that like when you 
24 had someone you knew who actually believed those lies? 
25 Ms. Moss. Well, I was actually about to get on a call --a Zoom call with my  44 
1 lawyers, and I just was, like, shaking uncontrollably. I was, like, in shock, like, we were 
2 kids together in Spanish class in high school. Like, we've been friends on Facebook ever 
3 since. 
4 I never would have --like, it was just shocking to me. And, you know, I messaged 
5 her. I replied to her comment. And, you know, I was like: What? I did nothing 
6 wrong. What proof are you talking about? 
7 And just validated everything when her proof was the Gateway Pundit. 
8 So I got on the call right after that with my lawyers, and I tried to keep it together, 
9 but I had to just let it all out, let them know, and I thought I got it off my chest, what just 
10 happened, and I was okay. And we had our meeting. 
11 Mr. Schiff. Well, it's a good opportunity for me to thank your lawyers for 
12 everything you --I --I want to ask you --and it may be hard to kind of quantify it, but the 
13 threats that you were receiving, the comments that you were receiving, how many --you 
14 know, how would you break it down --if you can break it down, how many of those 
15 [inaudible] comments were racist comments, how many were violent --threats of 
16 violence, and how many were both racist and threats of violence? How would you sort 
17 of break it down of all that you were hearing and reading on social media or messages to 
18 you? 
19 Ms. Moss. It was probably about --I would say just 40 percent racist, 40 percent 
20 violent, and then 20 percent of people just asking me: Hey, are you the woman that 
21 stole the election? Hey, are you Ruby Freeman's daughter? Is this Shaye-Shaye Moss 
22 from State Farm. Like --like that. 
23 Mr. Schiff. Well, I --your grandmother sounds like a remarkable person. 
24 Ms. Moss. Thank you. 
25 Mr. Schiff. Everybody should have someone like that in their lives.  45 
1 So, through one means or another, they --the haters found out where your 
2 mother and grandmother were living. Is that right? 
3 
4 Ms. Moss. Yes. 
Mr. Schiff. And was it the police or FBI that told your mother that it wasn't safe, 
5 she really had to move out of her own home? 
6 
7 Ms. Moss. The FBI. 
Mr. Schiff. FBI. And they didn't feel they could keep her safe in her own home, 
8 that there was no recourse except to move? 
9 Ms. Moss. I'm not sure. I never asked her that. But she did not feel safe in 
10 her home. I knew that. 
11 
12 
13 Mr. Schiff. Yeah. And your grandmother, she stayed in her home? 
Ms. Moss. Yes. She stayed in her home, uh-huh. 
Mr. Schiff. You mentioned that you felt that you were a bad daughter to put 
14 your family through this --
15 
16 Ms. Moss. Uh-huh. 
Mr. Schiff. --put your mother through this, your grandmother through this. 
17 This may be a hard question to answer, but why would you feel that way? I mean, you 
18 were doing public service? None of this was your fault. Why did you feel responsibility 
19 for that? 
20 Ms. Moss. Well, I didn't feel responsible because I think it's my --I think I did 
21 anything wrong. I felt responsible because, going all the way back to the beginning, if I 
22 would not have went for the Registration and Elections position, just worked at the zoo or 
23 IHOP or something --I don't know --just anything else, this would not have happened. 
24 It --I think that's the --this is the only type of job that --that that could, you know, 
25 happen.  46 
1 My mom worked like --my grandmother worked for 30 years for the county, and 
2 none of this has happened to her. Like, maybe I should have went to Property Tax like 
3 her. But I went to Registration and Elections, not realizing the politics that's involved 
4 with it. I thought we were just helping people register and running the elections. 
5 didn't know how people could be so cruel. 
6 Mr. Schiff. Well, we're grateful that you have done the work that you've done. 
7 How did your office treat you and what was happening to you? 
8 
9 Ms. Moss. At what point chime? 
Mr. Schiff. Well, your supervisors and others, did they provide you the support 
10 you needed? 
11 Ms. Moss. No. No, sir. At that time, the people --I don't know what to call 
12 them. At that time, President --former President Trump, Rudy Giuliani, and the allies 
13 and supporters, they wanted all of us to be fired. They wanted my director fired. They 
14 wanted Mr. Jones, the chief, fired. 
15 So, yeah, they --you know, we had meetings talking about the things that were 
16 going on. But, no, they didn't --they didn't provide me with any --anything. 
17 
18 
19 Mr. Schiff. Were you given any security at all? 
Ms. Moss. No. 
Mr. Schiff. And did they --have they advised you about how you could stay safe 
20 or what could be done about your receiving all these threats? 
21 Ms. Moss. No. Nope. Not at all. My lawyers got me security, but, no, 
22 the --Fulton County did not do anything for me, unfortunately. And I still went to work. 
23 Mr. Schiff. And I understand that your mother had to close down her business. 
24 Is that right? 
25 Ms. Moss. Yes. Like --yes. She had to, yep, change everything about her  1 business, just like --she doesn't have that business any longer, right? 
2 Mr. Schiff. Okay. 
3 -I'll yield it back to you. 
4 Ms.- Thanks, Mr. Schiff. 
5 
6 Ms. Moss. Thank you. 
BYMS. 
7 Q That was actually getting to the point that I wanted to speak to you last, 
8 Ms. Moss. So are you still employed by the Fulton County Registration and Elections 
9 Department? 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 A No, ma'am. 
Q Okay. And when did you leave that job? 
A 
Q 
A May. 
May of this year? 
Yes. This year. 
Q So did you stay on and continue working through the --through the 
16 January 5th Senate runoff? 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 A Uh-huh. 
Q And after that point? 
A Uh-huh. 
Q So what circumstances led to you no longer being employed there? 
A It's a lot. Should I go through all of the --I don't know. It's --
Q Well, let me --let me ask you a question this way. 47 
23 Did everything that you've told us today --everything that you went through, did 
24 that have an impact on your ability to continue working at --in your job? 
25 A Yes.  1 Q Okay. If not for this, would you have stayed in the job? I know you've 
2 told us at the beginning that you loved your work. 
3 A Right. Yes. Well, I will just say everyone is gone. Everyone is either 
4 fired or made too uncomfortable and quit, uh-huh. 
5 
6 Q Okay. 
A My office was, like, under attack. Not just me. They seem to hate the 
7 entire county of, you know, Registration and Elections. Uh-huh. 
8 Q I see. And, after leaving employment by the Fulton County Registration 48 
9 and Elections Department, how long did it take for you to find a new job, if you've found 
10 one since then? 
11 A I haven't found one. All I know is registration and elections, and I don't 
12 think that's something I will ever be able to do. 
13 Q How does that --how does that make you feel, not to be able to do that 
14 work again? 
15 A Horrible. Uh-huh. It --it don't feel good. I feel lost. I feel like, what 
16 do I do now? I'm 38, but I feel like I don't want to be, like: Hello, I'm Shaye. Teach 
17 me how to do this. Like, I don't know. I don't know. Do I need to get another 
18 degree? I don't know what to do. I don't know at all. I am lost. I'm lost. 
19 Ms.- Well, thank you very much, again, for going over these what I know 
20 are difficult times with us today. Thank you for being here. 
21 Are there any --any aspects of this that you think that we've --that we've missed 
22 today that you'd like to discuss more? 
23 
24 Ms. Moss. No, ma'am. 
Ms.- Okay. Anything that your lawyers would like to raise or that you 
25 think that we might not have addressed sufficiently?  1 
2 
3 
4 Mr. Gottlieb. Not for me. 
Ms.~ Okay. 
Mr. Schiff? 
Mr. Schiff. Thank you. That was very heartbreaking to hear. I'm really so 
5 sorry for what you've gone through. 
6 I wanted to just follow up on something you said. 
7 The office that you worked in, Registration and Elections --is that the title of the 
8 office? 
9 Ms. Moss. Yes, sir. 
10 Mr. Schiff. It sounds like you were saying that basically everyone you worked 
11 with is now gone from that office. Is that right? 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 Ms. Moss. Uh-huh. Yes. 
Mr. Gottlieb. Please say -
Ms. Moss. Yes. 
Mr. Gottlieb. Thank you. 
Ms. Moss. Yes. 
Mr. Schiff. Does that include the two supervisors you mentioned that had 
18 brought you into their office to see the video for the first time? 
19 
20 
21 Ms. Moss. Oh, yes. 
Mr. Schiff. And a number of your other coworkers? 
Ms. Moss. The basement crew lead, yes. Every --everyone. It came to the 
22 point where I'm the only one here from 2020. And they just made it very, very 
23 uncomfortable, so I just didn't have any choice. I couldn't stay there any longer. 
24 Mr. Schiff. This is just so striking to me that the impact of these lies not just on 
25 your lives but essentially succeeded in forcing everyone in that office out of the office 49  50 
1 ultimately is --
Ms. Moss. Yep. 
Mr. Schiff. Is that right? 2 
3 
4 Ms. Moss. Yes, sir. You have --they even made a new department now called 
5 Absentee, and that now has a deputy director who is spanking new. The supervisor is 
6 Mr. Richard Barron's old secretary. Like, it --yeah. They're all new, and it came to a 
7 point where everyone who has taught me everything or all my backbones in the office 
8 have, you know, been pressured to quit or have just been outright fired for the smallest 
9 things, and now we're in an office with all these --everybody's new --new, like, has never 
10 done this before. 
11 But they put out all these big-paying positions, so, you know, they filled it. And 
12 now it's Shaye's job to teach everyone else how to do what I've been doing for 10 years, 
13 and I'm still getting my 34,000, and now they're in the sixties and seventies and --yeah. 
14 It's up to Shaye. Teach me redistricting. Teach me everything. If not, you're going to 
15 be fired. 
16 
17 So I just had to leave. I had to leave. 
Mr. Schiff. And all this after an election in which you did everything you were 
18 supposed to do, and the recounts verified everything that you did. 
19 
20 
21 
22 Ms. Moss. Uh-huh. 
Mr. Schiff. Nonetheless, everybody's ultimately forced out. 
Ms. Moss. Yes, sir. 
Mr. Schiff. Well, it's a terrible, terrible tragedy, and I want to thank you so much 
23 for coming to testify today. I know it must be very difficult to relive these events. And 
24 I'm terribly sorry that you have to relive them pretty much every day one way or another. 
25 But we --we're grateful for your speaking out and speaking out on behalf of a lot  1 of other elections officials around the country who admire what you've done and your 
2 courage. And I'm glad you felt that at the Kennedy award, so lots of other people 
3 around the country who feel exactly the same way as those folks in that room did. 
4 Thank you, . 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 Ms.. Great. Thank you, Mr. Schiff. 
So nothing I can add to that, so I'll just say thank you, Ms. Moss. 
Ms. Moss. Thank you. 
Ms.- We really do appreciate it. 
Ms. Moss. Yes. Thank you. 
Ms.- We can go off the record now. 
[Whereupon, at 12:35 p.m., the interview was concluded.] 51  1 
2 
3 Certificate of Deponent/Interviewee 
4 I have read the foregoing __ pages, which contain the correct transcript of the 
5 answers made by me to the questions therein recorded. 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 Witness Name 
Date 52 