Unclassified//For Official Use Only//Law Enforcement Sensitive 
United States Secret Service -Coordinated Response to a Request for Information from the 
Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol 
Date: November 18, 2021 
Background: On October 19, 2021, a coordination call was held between the U.S. Secret 
Service (Secret Service) and designated staff for the Select Committee to Investigate the January 
6th Attack on the United States Capitol ( 1/6 SC). During the call the 1/6 SC staff identified 
prioritized interests for the committee specific to the January 6, 2021 (then) President Donald 
Trump event on the Ellipse in Washington, DC. 
Further, on October 21, 2021, an additional coordination call was made between the Secret 
Service and designated staff for the 1/6 SC during which the committee identified specific 
requests for information related to protection and intelligence matters associated with (then) Vice 
President Michael Pence's attendance at the U.S. Capitol on January 6, 2021. 
The below information outlines and addresses the 1/6 SC requests. 
Request for Information (RFI) and Response: 
January 6, 2021 (then) President Donald Trump event on the Ellipse in Washington, DC 
(RF!) Provide an understanding of the event on the Ellipse. Who put the event together, what 
was the nature of the event, and identify elements of the Secret Service's partnership for the 
event with White House staff, the National Park Service, or any other additional entities? 
Additionally, what information was conveyed to the Secret Service about the event regarding 
who would be attending and the numbers expected to attend. Further, what security risks were 
identified and managed with respect to the event, and what plans were prepared for after the 
event with regard to (then) President Trump's agenda (i.e. was planning addressed by the US. 
Secret Service for President Trump to go to the US. Capitol, what was the Secret Service's 
understanding about the possibility of President Trump going to the US. Capitol, were there any 
variations to President Trump's agenda, or analysis done prior to 1/6/21 regarding President 
Trump going to the US. Capitol on 1/6/21)? 
Additionally, with respect to magnetometer security, what was the number count for individuals 
screened by the Secret Service and what items of "concern" were confiscated by the Secret 
Service at the agency's magnetometer checkpoints? 
On January 2, 2021, White House staff advised the Secret Service Presidential Protective 
Division (PPD), that President Trump would attend the "March for Trump" on the Ellipse 
portion of the White House grounds on January 6, 2021. The event was described as a political 
event supporting President Trump. 
As with all events on the President's official schedule, the Secret Service worked with White 
House staff to understand the nature of the event and develop a security posture to ensure for the 
Unclassified//For Official Use Only//Law Enforcement Sensitive  Unclassified//For Official Use Only//Law Enforcement Sensitive 
safety of the President during his attendance. The White House staff lead for the event provided 
the start time of the event, time line for his attendance, and expected activities during the event. 
To aid the development of its security posture, the Secret Service asked White House staff to 
determine the expected event attendance numbers, which would inform the Secret Service's 
plans to ensure guests were appropriately screened prior to entering an established secure 
perimeter. The Secret Service was advised this event was open to the public. 
White House staff did not provide advance estimates of how many members of the public were 
expected to attend. All estimates of public attendance were provided by the National Park 
Service (NPS) based upon changes in permit size. (See below). 
White House staff did provide the Secret Service with a list of persons who would attend the 
event. The list identified individuals who would require special access to the site to provide 
services for the event ( e.g., contractors responsible for stage construction, lighting and sound 
equipment, etc.) and anticipated guest speakers who could be in close proximity to Secret 
Service protectees. 
This political event was on the Ellipse grounds, and therefore part of President's Park which is 
managed by the NPS. A few days before it took place, the Secret Service was notified by the 
NPS of a permit received for the event with an expected attendance of 5,000 attendees . Over the 
course of the next several days, the Secret Service received updates from NPS that increased the 
event's expected size. On January 4, 2021, the NPS permit for the event increased to 20,000 
attendees. On January 5, 2021, the NPS permit increased the attendance estimate to 30,000. 
Consistent with all Secret Service secured presidential visits, the expected attendance levels were 
evaluated and used to identify the requisite number of Secret Service Uniformed Division (UND) 
managed magnetometers that would be needed to support the event. For this occasion, due to the 
outdoor nature of the event and expected weather conditions, additional magnetometers and 
UND personnel were added to ensure the magnetometer screening flow rate for the number of 
attendees would remain at an acceptable pace. 
As with any event on the President's official schedule that includes N~ 
Washin ton D.C. Secret Service advance personnel worked with the~ 
for the District of Columbia throughout the development of 
Secret Service's security plan. 
For January 6, 2021, the Secret Service formulated a security plan based on advance work, to 
include security assessments, information gathering, and interagency coordination . Secret 
Service advance personnel were assigned various responsibilities, to include: 
• 
• 
• 
Unclassified//For Official Use Only//Law Enforcement Sensitive  Unclassified//For Official Use Only//Law Enforcement Sensitive 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
At no point was the Secret Service notified by White House staff that the President would visit 
the U.S. Capitol on January 6, 2021. The President's Official schedule indicated he would go to 
the Ellipse directly from the White House, participate in the event, and then return directly back 
to the White House. 
Accordingly, on January 6, 2021, the Secret Service planned for the following timeline/agenda 
for the President: 
• 10:50 AM-Depart the White House, 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 
via motorcade 
• 10:55 AM-Arrive at President's Park, 1450 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, 
DC 
• 12:35 PM -Depart President's Park, 1450 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 
via motorcade 
• 12:40 PM-Arrive the White House, 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 
Although there were deviations from the anticipated timeline (e.g., the President's speech 
concluded later than expected at approximately 1: 10 PM), the President adhered to the departure 
and arrival locations in the planned schedule. 
Unclassified//For Official Use Only//Law Enforcement Sensitive  Unclassified//For Official Use Only//Law Enforcement Sensitive 
The total number of public attendees screened by the Secret Service UND at Ellipse event 
magnetometers was estimated to be 28,000. From individua ls who were screened, the following 
prohibited items were confiscated : 1 
• Pepper Spray: 242 
• Knives/Blades: 269 
• Brass Knuckles: 18 
• Tasers: 29 
• Body Armor: 6 
• Gas Masks: 3 
• Baton/Blunt Weapons: 30 
• Miscellaneous: 172 
(RF!) Provide an understanding of intelligence information related to the event on the Ellipse. 
What name checks were conducted by the Secret Service associated with the Ellipse event and 
did Secret Service name checks identify any "extremists"? 
(RF!) What intelligence was available to the Secret Service associated specifically with the 
Ellipse event on January 6, 2021, and what information did the Secret Service have? 
Leading up to January 6, 2021, the Secret Service Protective Intelligence and Assessment 
Division (PID) made various protective intelligence products available to agency personnel to 
1Toese confiscations were made for security purposes. If an individual in possession of a prohibited item at a magnetometer checkpoint expressed 
a desire to keep his/her item rather than have it confiscated, the individual would be allowed to do so if the i tern was lawful to possess. 
However , that individual would not be allowed entry into the Secret Service's secured area. 
2 Miscellaneous items are items not specifically designed to be a weapon, but could potentially be used as a weapon. An example might be 
scissors, knitting needles, pens with sharp caps, screwdrivers etc. 
3 Name checks entered search Secret Service criminal and protective intelligence databases along with criminal justice information as indexed by 
the National Crime Information Center (NCIC). 
Unclassified//For Official Use Only//Law Enforcement Sensitive  Unclassified//For Official Use Only//Law Enforcement Sensitive 
promote awareness of, among other things, demonstration activity that was anticipated in various 
Washington, D.C. locations. As a result of the indicated demonstration participants, and past 
experiences, as well as an observed increase in social media chatter from demonstrators, PID 
assessed the majority of individuals would remain peaceful, but clashes between opposing 
demonstration groups were likely. 
This information was summarized in the following documents: 
1. PID Briefing Document -March for Trump Jan 06 (Dated December 31, 2020) 
2. PID Briefing Document -March for Trump Jan 06 Update (Dated January 4, 2021) 
3. (U//FOUO) Notable Trends and Tactics for Consideration Ahead of Potential Civil 
Unrest in the National Capital Region 
The Secret Service did not have any adverse intelligence or other specific or actionable 
information -from any Intelligence Community agency or otherwise -regarding widespread 
criminal activity that was anticipated on January 6, 2021. 
Protection and Intelligence Matters Associated with (then) Vice President Michael Pence's 
Attendance at the U.S. Capitol on January 6, 2021 
(RF!) A subject matter expert briefing related to intelligence on 1/6/21 is requested by the Select 
Committee. 
The Secret Service provided the requested briefing to the 1/6 SC on Tuesday, November 9, 2021. 
(RF!) Provide an understanding of intelligence information available and specific to January 6, 
2021. Additionally, what information was briefed to personnel on the Vice President's Detail (or 
others) about protectees attending events at the U.S. Capitol on January 6, 2021? What did the 
assigned January 6, 2021 intelligence teams brief that day in preparation of the Vice President's 
movement to the U.S. Capitol? 
On the morning of January 6, 2021, prior to their departure from the Vice President's residence 
to the U.S. Capitol, a WFO agent met with agents on the Vice President's motorcade team to 
update them on intelligence matters. The agent advised WFO did not receive any specific 
adverse intelligence related to protective visits to the U.S. Capitol. 
Similarly, a WFO agent met with agents on the Vice President-Elect's motorcade team and 
advised that WFO did not receive any specific adverse intelligence related to protective visits to 
the U.S. Capitol. 
The WFO Protective Intelligence (PI) Lead for the January 6, 2021 PPD Ellipse site also met 
with a WFO agent regarding intelligence matters. The WFO PI agent advised WFO did not 
receive any specific adverse intelligence related to the event. 
Prior to the event at the Ellipse site, the WFO PI Lead agent provided an intelligence briefing to 
Secret Service personnel responsible for the event security plan and assigned to the event. The 
Unclassified//For Official Use Only//Law Enforcement Sensitive  Unclassified//For Official Use Only//Law Enforcement Sensitive 
briefing included information applicable to personnel assigned to the event as well as 
information about assigned and available intelligence teams that were dedicated to the event. 
Additionally, during the event, the WFO PI Lead for the Ellipse site was informed of, and 
advised on, one incident at the site involving the arrest of an individual found in possession of a 
martial arts weapon (see above description of "nunchucks" arrest). 
(RFI) Confirm that no Preliminary Survey was prepared for the Vice Presidential Protective 
Division site at the US. Capitol on January 6, 2021. 
In accordance with long standard operating procedures, and agreements between the Secret 
Service and the U.S. Capitol Police, related to a Vice Presidential visit to the U.S. Capitol, no 
Preliminary Survey was prepared for the Vice President's movement to the U.S. Capitol on 
January 6, 2021. 
(RFI) Provide available paperwork associated with the Vice Presidential Protective Division for 
January 6, 2021. 
Available and applicable paperwork associated with the Vice Presidential Protective Division for 
January 6, 2021 is enclosed. 
Unclassified//For Official Use Only//Law Enforcement Sensitive 