1 
2 
3 
4 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE 
5 JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL, 
6 U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
7 WASHINGTON, D.C. 
8 
9 
10 
11 INTERVIEW OF: AMY KREMER 
12 
13 
14 
15 Friday, February 18, 2022 
Washington, D.C. 1 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 The interview in the above matter was held via Webex, commencing at 10:07 a.m. 
Present: Representatives Luria, Murphy, and Kinzinger.  1 
2 Appearances: 
3 
4 
5 For the SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE 
6 THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL: 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 AND SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT 
, INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
, PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBER 
CHIEF CLERK 
PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBER 
SENIOR TECHNICAL ADVISOR 
, INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
SENIOR INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
18 For AMY KREMER: 
19 
20 ERIN POTTER 
21 MICHAEL COLUMBO 
22 DAVID A. WARRINGTON 2  3 
1 
2 - So let's go on the record. It's 10:07 a.m. in the morning. And this 
3 is --good morning. This is a transcribed interview conducted by the House Select 
4 Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol pursuant to 
5 House Resolution 503. 
6 Ms. Kremer, at this time could you please state your full name and spell your last 
7 name for the record? 
8 
9 Ms. Kremer. Sure. It's Amy Kremer. And my last name is K-r-e-m-e-r. 
- Thank you. Now this will a staff-led interview, and members, of 
10 course, of the committee may join and choose to ask questions. And this morning we 
11 do have Mrs. Luria is on with us but off camera. 
12 My name is- I'm a senior investigative counsel on the staff, and with 
13 me in the room is who's an Investigative Counsel. 
14 At this time, I know that you have your attorneys with you. I'll just ask them to 
15 introduce themselves and spell their names for the record. 
16 Mr. Warrington. Yeah, David Warrington, W-a-r-r-i-n-g-t-o-n, and my colleague, 
17 Mike Columbo, C-o-1-u-m-b-o, and our legal assistant, Erin Potter, with the law firm. 
18 [Reporter asked for clarification.] 
19 
20 
21 Mr. Warrington. Yes. Erin Potter. She's a legal assistant with our law firm. 
Thank you. 
And, Ms. Kremer, before we start, I'll just go over a few ground rules. So as 
22 you've now heard, there is a court reporter who's joined us by Webex. And she'll be 
23 taking a transcript of the interview. And you also heard the system say it's being 
24 recorded. So it's standard for an interview of this sort. As I told Mr. Warrington 
25 beforehand, this is videotaped.  4 
1 Now I know you're joining us by Webex and, so are your counsel and you are all in 
2 different places. If at any point you all need to talk to each other privately, that's fine. 
3 Just let us know and we can all turn our cameras off and go on mute and you guys can 
4 consult with one another. 
5 Now as we proceed with the interview, if you could just wait until each question is 
6 asked before you begin your answer, just so the record is clear, and I'll do the same and 
7 wait for you to complete your answer before I move on, so that we can avoid talking over 
8 one another. 
9 The reporter cannot record nonverbal responses, like shaking or nodding your 
10 head. So excuse me in advance if I have to follow up with you at some point and ask 
11 you to just say yes or no, or otherwise verbalize your response. 
12 And there might be times where I also ask you to spell something for the record, 
13 and that's just so that the court reporter knows what we're talking about. We ask --
14 
15 Ms. Kremer. Okay. 
We ask that you provide complete answers based on your best 
16 recollection. If the question is not clear, just ask us, and we'll do our best to clarify. 
17 And if you don't know the answer, just say so. 
18 Again, we talked about if you need a break with Mr. Warrington and Mr. Columbo, 
19 that's fine. If you also just need a comfort break to take a rest for a few minutes, that's 
20 fine as well. 
21 I don't expect that this interview will take more than, you know, a few hours, so 
22 maybe to lunchtime or so. I'll do my best to keep it moving. But, you know, if you 
23 need a break, say, at every hour, we can step away for 5 minutes or so, whatever you feel 
24 comfortable with. 
25 Ms. Kremer. Thank you.  1 - And throughout the interview, what we'll do is we'll direct your 
2 attention to particular documents. We have a handful we've marked as exhibits, and 
3 what I have is a colleague who can flash them up on the screen for you so you can see 
4 them. 
5 Most, but not all of them, were ones produced by you or your daughter Kylie. 
6 And so I think you've seen them. Other ones I sent to Dave last night, or most of them, 
7 at least. But whatever they are, if you need time to look them over to refamiliarize 
8 yourself with them, just take your time and let us know when you're ready. 
9 And we'll do a test run right now and show you exhibit 1 and see if you can see it. 
10 
11 
12 
13 Ms. Kremer. Okay. 
- Is that coming up on your screen? 
Ms. Kremer. Yes, it does. 
- Okay. All right. Great. So you'll see at the top we marked the 
14 exhibit number in yellow, and we also put the page number. If you need us to zoom so 
15 you can read it, just let us know. Working virtually, it works pretty well, and you just 
16 have to --we'll help you out if you need it. 
17 But just for the record, this is a subpoena that you've produced documents 
18 pursuant to, which we appreciate, and also you're appearing here today for your 
19 interview. 
20 Ms. Kremer. Right. 
21 Now, I have to remind you, as I do every witness who appears 
22 before the committee, that it's unlawful to deliberately provide false information to 
23 Congress and that to do so could result in criminal penalties. 
24 Do you understand that? 
25 Ms. Kremer. I do. 5  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 - Okay. Do you have any questions before we get started? 
Ms. Kremer. No, I don't think I do. I'm good. 
- All right. Well, appreciate that. 
Q EXAMINATION 
BY 
So, you know, the way I think just to give you an overview, we'll start with 
7 just some general background questions, and then I think we can work our way into the 
8 November and December rallies and then into the January 6th rally. So that's kind of 
9 how we'll block it out. 
Okay. 6 
10 
11 A 
Q So just to get started, you don't have to give me the full history, because you 
12 have done quite a lot in your career, but can you just give us a summary of your work? 
13 think of it as grassroots political work, but however you view it, what you've been doing 
14 over these past few years. 
15 A Yeah, I mean, that's exactly what it is, is grassroots political work. 
16 And I got started. I'm one of the original founders of the modern-day Tea Party 
17 movement, and worked in the --with Tea Party Express up through 2014, maybe 2015, 
18 doing congressional and Senate races. That's really where I cut my teeth in politics. 
19 And then when President Trump ran in '16, I supported him. I was one of the 
20 earliest ones out there publicly. I did a lot of media, and then we had Women for 
21 Trump. And we were just active in, you know, doing what we could to help win the 
22 election. And then after he won, then we started Women for America First to focus on 
23 pushing the America First agenda. And that's where I am now. 
24 Q Now, I get the sense that in the early days with Tea Party Express, that's 
25 where you got some experience with bus tours. Is that fair?  7 
A Yes. I'm called the bus queen. 
Q Okay. All right. I won't call you that but I hear --1 
2 
3 A My family rolls their eyes when I say the word bus because they're, like, here 
4 she goes again. 
5 Q And so talk about that, using the bus as a means to get out and get your 
6 message around. Why is it something you did, and why has it been effective for you? 
7 A Because I --we realized early on with Tea Party Express that any one of us 
8 could be replaced on the bus. None of us were the rock stars. It was the bus that was 
9 the rock star. And while we're blessed to be able to travel and go across the country 
10 and be with people and meet people, there are people out, you know, in the middle of 
11 the heartland that aren't able to travel. And they live on a farm, and they don't see 
12 people that often. 
13 And so, with the bus, it was --it was something that everybody got to share a 
14 piece of, you know. And so, it was always successful. People loved it. And it was 
15 exhausting and tiring. But, I mean, it --we loved it and it worked. And so I think we 
16 built one of the biggest brands in modern --in modern-day politics. 
17 And --and so, it was, you know, Let's get back on the bus, and Let's do the March 
18 for Trump. And, again, it was, you know, being able to connect with people that 
19 otherwise wouldn't be able to, you know, participate in something. 
20 Q And doing the March for Trump, is that --and the bus tour, is that something 
21 you started before the 2020 election, or did that happen after Election Day? 
22 A No. So we actually, the first event we did for the March for Trump was 
23 during the first impeachment. And we had a rally on Capitol Hill. And that was 
24 in --was that in October 2019, I think, the fall of 2019? And then I think we did 
25 something back at that Christmas to March for Trump on the Hill, and so, we had done  8 
1 March for Trump before the 2020 election. 
2 Q And the concept of --you know, obviously it comes into play because we'll 
3 get to January 6th. So when people hear the word "march," they think of literally 
4 people walking or moving. But at the time when you're talking about the bus tour, do 
5 you remember why you picked March for Trump or what that meant to you? 
6 A I mean, honestly it was because the domain we could get, an easy domain. 
7 You know, Rally 4 Trump, March for Trump, I mean, it was --there was no --there was no, 
8 like, true reason that we came up with that other than we got the domain we got. We 
9 got the domain trumpmarch.com. And so that's what we called it, March for Trump. 
10 Q And to that point, I mean, we'll talk about a lot --I know you did a lot of 
11 different stops, you know, before the election and after. Did every one of them include, 
12 you know, a march where people would go from one place to another? Or was it, you 
13 know, you'd do a stop and people would come to you where the bus was at and that's 
14 where you would hold the rally? 
15 A Oh, yeah, no, people would come to us and we'd hold the rally and that 
16 would be it. We never marched other than November 14, and then December 12th, 
17 when we were at Freedom Plaza both those times. 
18 I'll note for the record that Mr. Kinzinger just joined. So he's in the 
19 Webex as well. 
20 
21 
22 Good morning, sir. Thank you for joining. 
BY 
Q So the --the --you know, just taking you up to the election, Ms. Kremer, and 
23 what, just as your reaction to the results of the presidential election, and then your 
24 decision to get going again, can you just walk us through that? 
25 A I mean, I --we couldn't believe what was happening. You know, I had felt  9 
1 that Trump was going to win because I had been out doing events and whatnot. And I 
2 saw the excitement, the enthusiasm. And then you look at Biden and Harris, and he's in 
3 the basement and she's nowhere to be found. And it's, like, how can you win an 
4 election if you're not even out campaigning? And, I mean, it's no secret the crowds that 
5 the President draws. 
6 And so, I mean, I felt in my heart we were going to win. And then Election Day, 
7 when he's winning and you --then they stopped counting in several different States. 
8 You know, CNN, we were watching CNN. They stopped counting for whatever reasons. 
9 Here in Atlanta, it was, you know, the leak, the plumbing leak. And so, anyhow, then 
10 you wake up the next morning and Bide n's winning and it was just like a bad nightmare. 
11 I mean, how did you get here? 
12 And so, people were calling and reaching out and --but nobody knew what to do. 
13 Nobody was doing anything. And I just went to what I know, and that's pull people 
14 together. And we went down to the State Farm Arena the next night, the day after the 
15 election. And I didn't think anybody was going to show up because we put it out to 
16 meet us down there, I think, at 9:30 that night. We didn't put it out at 8:00 o'clock, and 
17 we thought nobody's going to show up down there. Well, people started showing up. 
18 And people were showing up across the country. 
19 So, obviously, this was a sentiment that was felt, you know, across the country, 
20 that the election was being stolen. And so, we started, I mean, organizing people, you 
21 know, to go to their State capital, to go to the State capital here in Atlanta, or to go to 
22 CNN Center, you know, different places and working with people to just pull people 
23 together, getting it --the word out there through social media, those of us that have big 
24 followings. 
25 And nobody was doing anything. Like, the big PACs with all the money weren't  10 
1 doing anything. The RNC was not doing anything. And so, we just stepped up and 
2 filled that gap. 
3 Q And, you know, as you talk about social media, you know, we certainly have 
4 seen one of the things that I think you and Kylie, your daughter, together started, was 
5 that Facebook page, the Stop the Steal Facebook page which was pretty quick. Can you 
6 talk to us a little bit about that and how that turned out for you-all? 
7 A Sure. So we actually --we actually --I said to Kylie, you know, when --the 
8 language started coming up in conversations, Stop the Steal. And I said, you know what, 
9 let's start a Facebook group, Stop the Steal. But don't do it as an individual. Do it 
10 under our verified Women for America First page, because then Facebook will know it's 
11 legitimate. And, I mean, we worked with them, you know, for a number of years. 
12 They'll know it's legitimate, and it won't get shut down or whatever. 
13 The group, it was out of control. I believe that when they shut it down 22 hours 
14 later, 365,000 people had joined. And there were, like, 2.1 million in the queue, waiting 
15 to be added. 
16 Kylie's better with the numbers. I think that --I think that it was said 1,000 were 
17 joining every 10 seconds, and it was completely organic. And I know that Facebook and 
18 the tech world has said they've never seen anything like it but it --they shut it down. 
19 Q The --is that --I'll just note for the record we have another person with you 
20 in the room. Is that Maggie, the dog? 
21 A Yeah, sorry, Maggie May. 
22 Q Maggie May. No, that's fine. We --she's --you know, the nature of the 
23 work and the documents are produced, Maggie shows up occasionally. So that's how 
24 we knew who she is, but she's very cute. Glad to have her. 
25 So the Facebook group, as you envisioned it, what was it a platform to do? Was  11 
1 it, you know, to provide information to people, to allow people to talk to one another? 
2 How did --what was the vision there behind it? 
3 A It was, you know, like, our page is where we just post stuff and people can 
4 comment. But in a group, it's a way for people to connect with each other and interact 
5 with each other. And also, we can post events and whatnot. So it was a way for 
6 people to network and connect with other people, saying they their State, their city, or 
7 town. And so, that was the main purpose of it, is just to organize people. 
8 Q The phrase Stop the Steal, you know, it's got a history around it and with 
9 other people that we'll end up talking about. But at the time that you set up the page, 
10 why did you choose to use that language for it? 
11 A Because that was a phrase that just kept coming up over and over again in 
12 conversations. You know, throughout that --the, I guess, the night of the election, and 
13 then leading into the next day, you know, it was Stop the Steal. They're stealing it. So 
14 that --it was an easy --it was an easy choice to come to that. 
15 
16 Q 
A Did Facebook ever explain to you why they shut the site down? 
No, they did not. But I've been told that --I've been told that it was 
17 because of threats of violence. And that obviously wasn't coming from us. But I guess 
18 people were posting things in the comments and they just --they shut it down because 
19 for fear of violence that something would happen. That's what I've been told. 
20 Q You mentioned earlier, you said it got a little bit out of control I think is what 
21 you said. Is that basically what you're referring to that, you know, people get on there 
22 and the freewheeling comments, that that type of stuff started to pop up? 
23 A I --honestly, there weren't that many of those comments. It was --that 
24 was not what I mean when I say out of control. 
25 Q Okay.  12 
1 A What I mean is that the number of posts, because we had it set up for --I 
2 believe we had it set up that you would go in and let's just say somebody joined the group 
3 and they wanted to make a post. They'd go in, make their post, and then one of the 
4 admins would have to approve it, because we didn't want crazies in there, posting all 
5 kinds of crap. 
6 Well, we just --it got to the point we couldn't keep up with it, because the group 
7 was growing so fast and people were active in the group and doing posts and whatnot. 
8 So it just got to the point where we couldn't keep up with it. 
9 Q Now, given your experience with, you know, being right there at the start of 
10 the Tea Party movement and, you know, the passion that was there, you know, 10 years 
11 ago, what --how would you compare that to what you were seeing after the election 
12 results, you know, and then through the Facebook page, but also at the events? 
13 How --can you compare the two and talk to us about that? 
14 A Yeah, well, there was a lot of enthusiasm with the Tea Party movement. 
15 And it grew. Over time, it grew. And ObamaCare really galvanized people. That was, 
16 like, it started because, believe it or not, people were fed up with the Republican Party, 
17 and they thought that they had gotten away from their principles, growing government, 
18 spending, and whatnot. 
19 And then when President Obama was elected, then ObamaCare, they tried 
20 to --they, you know, were working on ObamaCare. That was really what pulled people 
21 together because healthcare affects everyone. And so, as energizing as that was, it did 
22 not compare to what happened in November. 
23 Q In what way? I mean, what was --where were stronger feelings felt based 
24 on your experience, back in the Tea Party movement or after the election --reelection 
25 campaign for President Trump?  13 
1 A No, it was the reelection campaign. It was the day --the night of election 
2 night and the next day, people were just, I mean, they were beside themselves. I don't 
3 know how else to say it, upset, beside themselves, couldn't believe it was happening. 
4 And people were coming out of the woodwork to connect with others and say what the 
5 hell's going on here. And it --I mean, that dwarfed the Tea Party movement. 
6 Q And you talked about, you know, before the election, your experience with 
7 President Trump and seeing his rallies. Had he ever done a rally with your group, 
8 appeared at a rally of yours before, either for the first election or in the reelection? 
9 - Uh-oh. 
10 Mr. Warrington. I think --I think she's buffering. 
11 Okay. Well, so it's 10:27. Just for the record, Ms. Kremer's video 
12 has dropped out. It looks like she's having some bandwidth issues. So we'll go off the 
13 record until she can correct those. 
14 [Recess.] 
15 
16 Ms. Kremer. I lost y'all. 
- It's okay. It's 10:28. We'll go back on the record and just say that 
17 Ms. Kremer has joined us again. Her connection is back up. 
18 
19 Q BY 
When we lost --I'll just repeat. 
20 Had you ever had President Trump show up at one of your events prior to 
21 January 6th, Ms. Kremer? 
22 A No. He had never shown up at one of our events. We --in February of 
23 2019, when he did the emergency declaration for the border wall, well, in January we 
24 took Angel Families to Washington. And then in February we took Angel Families to 
25 Washington.  14 
1 And the first time in January, we met with the Vice President. And then in 
2 February the Angel --we did meet with the President and the Angel Families went into 
3 the Rose Garden with him when he did the press conference and did the emergency 
4 declaration. I did not go into the Rose Garden. I didn't want it to be about me. I sat 
5 in the Roosevelt Room the whole time. So --
6 Q And the --when you talked about the --the sentiment amongst supporters 
7 of President Trump after the election in 2020, you said how, and I think this is going to 
8 play into later, how a lot of people started to come out of the woodwork. And I don't 
9 mean that in a bad way. But I do want to talk about other people within the grassroots 
10 movement. 
11 You're prominent, at the forefront of that. Who else were some of the 
12 grassroots people at the forefront doing the same types of work that you were aware of 
13 after the election? 
14 A So there was --it started --there was a coalition of us --Ali Alexander, 
15 Brandon Straka. Cindy Chafian was working with me and Women for America First. 
16 Who else? I don't know who else. I know the Tea Party Patriots, I know that they 
17 showed up, I think, in Atlanta at our State capital. But I don't know what they were 
18 doing in addition to that. 
19 But it was --it was a coalition of people. There were --I don't know how many 
20 people were in that coalition. But there was a good number and a lot of influencers that 
21 had a far reach on social media. And so in the beginning we were all working together. 
22 Q And had you all been working together prior to the election, or was this 
23 something new after the election? 
24 A I mean, we --it was new after the election. I had worked with these 
25 people, you know, almost everybody before at some point on some, you know, some  15 
1 project. But we had not worked on --I mean, this was all new. 
2 Q And you've talked now a few times about how there were events at State 
3 capitals after the election. Why was that a focus of, you know, rallies and bringing 
4 people together, why the State capitals? 
5 A Well, it's an easy place to go to. I mean, when you want to --when you 
6 want to let your state legislatures know that you're watching them and you're trying to 
7 influence them to vote one way or whatnot, I mean, it's easy. State capital, of course, is 
8 where you go. 
9 And so it was just, if people could get to the State capital, then that --it's --it's an 
10 easy rendezvous place because it's not, like, telling somebody how to get to the town 
11 square, you know, you got to go through these back roads, I mean, just meet at the State 
12 capital, it's easy. 
13 Q And I'll ask what maybe seems like an obvious, question, but just for the 
14 record, in your own words, were the State legislatures a focus of that sort of outreach, 
15 given that we're talking about a presidential election, why were we focused --why were 
16 you focused on the State legislatures? 
17 A Well, honestly we weren't. I mean, there --when I say "we," I'm talking 
18 about the coalition of people. Now when you get to, say, Michigan or, you know, they 
19 may be the people on the ground there, that are doing their events, I mean, they may 
20 have --be working with some of their members in their State house or whatnot. But we 
21 were not focused on the state legislatures. It was just an easy place to tell everybody to 
22 go to. 
23 Q Now what was your --because it will become relevant later, I might as well 
24 ask now. What was your impression, or view of Ali Alexander and his efforts with regard 
25 to Stop the Steal?  16 
1 A So Ali, I met him back during the Tea Party movement. And Kylie and I, you 
2 know, joked a lot of times and say we don't know what that guy does, how he makes 
3 money, because it seemed, I mean, we just never knew what he did. 
4 But, like, he put together Blog Bash one year at CPAC. So I worked with him on 
5 that. He was going to run for Congress at some point, you know, and he consulted with 
6 me about that. 
7 I can't remember anything else that we really worked together on, a project. But 
8 when this project, when this started, Ali was --well, he would call me. You know, if 
9 something was going on, he'd call me and say, Amy, we got to --we need bodies. We 
10 need to mobilize the grassroots. He would always call me, I guess, because that's just 
11 what I do. But this time, I mean, people, like you said, were coming out of the 
12 woodwork. 
13 
14 
15 Q 
A 
Q Okay. So -­
But --
--up until that point until November, say, of 2020, did you have a good 
16 relationship with Mr. Alexander, or a favorable view of him? Or where did things stand? 
17 A Oh, no, we had a good, I mean, a good relationship. It wasn't 
18 somebody --he wasn't somebody that I talked to all the time. I would talk to him 
19 periodically, you know, about whatever was going on. And then we would go for 
20 months and not talk. 
21 Probably the --you know, we'd connect over Senate races or congressional races, 
22 you know, about what candidate was running, who was doing their campaign, whatever. 
23 But then we would go for a long period of time and not talk. 
24 Q Okay. And you said you had a --you would joke about how he made 
25 money. Why would that be something you would speculate about or joke about, you  17 
1 and Kylie? 
2 A Because the guy always had money but --and it wasn't just Kylie and I, other 
3 people, too. But we never knew what he did. I mean, it was --it was just odd. We 
4 never knew what he did. 
5 So, you know, I mean, I guess there's a lot of people you don't know how, you 
6 know, what --you know that they're a consultant, they get paid, but you also kind of 
7 know what they're working on. I mean, it's not --but with Ali, you really never knew. 
8 It was --it was just --it was kind of bizarre, thinking about it. 
9 Q So the coalition, as it was, is it right, ends up coming to D.C. on November 
10 14th of 2020 for a coalition rally? Is that fair to say? 
11 
12 A Yeah, that is fair to say. 
But I want to say one thing about Ali. You know, he would call me and say, 
13 Kremer, we need to mobilize the grassroots, and obviously we --that's what we were 
14 doing after November 3rd. 
15 But at one point he was, like, We need to occupy these State capitals 24-7. We 
16 need to have people there. And I was, like, Ali, are you crazy? I mean, if you do that, 
17 no one's going to show up. We need to do it one day and have it a short period of time, 
18 like an hour, an hour and a half. You don't want it to drag on, if people want to hang 
19 around. But you need to have a date and a time so that people will show up. You 
20 can't just say 24-7. That's ridiculous. And he was, like, Yeah, I guess you're right. 
21 And he had told the coalition. I mean, he was telling the coalition that, you 
22 know, 24-7 at these State capitals. And so, he went back and told the coalition, he was, 
23 like, Kremer talked to me and she's right. So we're going to do it on Saturday at this 
24 time, you know, whatever. So I got him moving in the right direction on that. 
25 Q When he talked to you about occupying State capitals, how did he explain  18 
1 what he meant by that? Occupy in what sense? 
2 A He just --he meant, you know, just protesting, having people there, you 
3 know, around the clock, outside, you know, not actually occupying, like, going in and 
4 occupying but, you know, having a presence there around the clock. 
5 Q And, again, I understand that you said for your --for Women for America 
6 First, you weren't focused on State legislatures, at least at that point, but it seems like 
7 Mr. Alexander was. And did that have anything to do with the electors for the 
8 presidential election, or why was he focused on the Capitals of the States as opposed to 
9 D.C.? 
10 A Well, it goes --I mean, it just goes back to not everybody can go to D.C. and 
11 but most people can go to their State capital, and so it's an easy place to meet. I mean, 
12 it's the, you know, the seat of your local government, your State government. 
13 Q But his strategy in talking to you, is that how he put it? It was just because 
14 it would be easy for people in those States or easier just to get to their own capitals as a 
15 rally point? 
16 A Yeah, because people wanted to do something right now. Like, I mean, we 
17 literally had people emailing, you know, calling, saying, I need to do something right now. 
18 Tell me where to go and what to do. 
19 I mean, I can't --I don't know, I mean. So it was just easy to come up with go to 
20 your State capital. We --we knew that we were --we wanted to go to Washington. 
21 But there was no way, from the day after Election Day, there was no way to have a rally 
22 that Saturday in Washington. We knew that we needed to do it on the weekends so 
23 that people could come, you know, people that worked could come. And there was no 
24 possible way to do it that Saturday, number one, because it didn't give us enough time to 
25 get the word out. But the main reason was because there's no way that we could have  19 
1 gotten a permit from park services that quick. So the obvious choice was the following 
2 Saturday. 
3 Q Now understanding what you've said about it can be more difficult for 
4 people to get to D.C. as opposed to State capitals, why did D.C. become a point of focus 
5 that you still wanted to get people there for a rally soon after the election? 
6 A I mean, because it was a national election, and it was President Trump. It 
7 was his reelection, and it just seemed the obvious place to go would be to Washington. 
8 Q And it was Women for America First that got the permit for Freedom Plaza. 
9 Is that right? 
10 
11 A 
Q That's correct. 
All right. So you-all knew what you were doing and how to run an event 
12 like this, I imagine, and probably were taking the lead on the coalition? 
13 A Yes. We --so we did secure the permit and we've done these before. 
14 And so, we did kind of take the lead. We did take the lead. I mean, we absolutely did 
15 take the lead. 
16 And Ali, my father had passed away in April of 2020. And so, we didn't have a 
17 memorial service for him, and my mom wanted to do a memorial service the day after 
18 Election Day. And I was, like, Mom, please let's do it one week later. Everybody's 
19 going to be exhausted after Election Day. So she did it. She planned it for one week 
20 later, November 11th, which is their anniversary. And so, we thought, you know, all this 
21 election stuff would be over and we'd be rested at that point. No idea that all this stuff 
22 was going to be going on. And there was no way I could get my mom to postpone or, 
23 you know, move the --my dad's memorial service. 
24 So I just said to the coalition, Kylie and I said, we're going step away for 2 days 
25 because my dad's memorial service. We have, you know, we've secured the permit, the  20 
1 stage. You know, we're going to continue to work on these things. And then we'll 
2 jump back in Wednesday night or Thursday morning. 
3 Well, when we jumped back in, Ali was --Ali had taken control and he was running 
4 the show. And I don't like conflict, and I don't like confrontation. I want everybody to 
5 be happy. I want to work with everybody, and people know I'm a pushover. That's 
6 what Kylie tells me anyway. 
7 So usually I would just go along to get along, not to have the conflict or 
8 confrontation. But when he took over and said he was running the show and, you 
9 know, this is the way things were going to go, I was, like, no, Ali, this is not the way it's 
10 going to go. And --
11 Q And so, and I didn't mean to interrupt but just so I can direct a little bit. 
12 What was he saying was the direction? Is it just who's speaking, the order, or who's 
13 being kind of spotlighted? What was it that he was doing that was causing friction? 
14 A So it was obvious, and I can't tell you specifically how, but it was obvious 
15 that it was becoming the Ali show. I mean, there are certain people that you work with 
16 that they want to be front and center and they want to see their name in lights, you 
17 know, 24-7. It was clear it was becoming the Ali show. 
18 And then when he said basically that I was going to get a minute and a half to 
19 speak on my --the stage that we had paid for, I don't even know about Jennifer and Kylie 
20 or other board members, but it was, like, this is just --this is nuts. We're going to 
21 include everybody. We, I mean, we're --that is what I love to do is coalitions. I love 
22 working with other people. We were going to include everybody, but Ali was not going 
23 to be one running the show. 
24 And so, he got his knickers in a twist. And, I mean, it just --it went downhill from 
25 there. But we did --we followed through on our word. I mean, we did allow  21 
1 everybody to speak. 
2 Q You pulled off the event. And so that --it was --that Saturday now, as we 
3 understand it, the beginning of the rally was at Freedom Plaza. And then there was a 
4 march to the Supreme Court. Is that right? 
5 A Yes. But can I go back to something,~ 
6 
7 Q 
A Sure. 
One of the big bones of contention with Ali was that he was raising money. 
8 He had a website --I can't remember what it was, stopthesteal.us or something. And he 
9 wanted everybody, all the coalition partners, to push everybody to that website. That's 
10 where he wanted everybody to go. That was going to be the place where all the 
11 information was posted. 
12 But the thing was he was collecting donations. And they were going to him 
13 personally, not to an organization, not to a business, but to his Venmo or Pay --I don't 
14 remember exactly what it was. But it was going to him personally. And he was also 
15 doing, I think, cryptocurrency. 
16 And so it was addressed with him. Kylie addressed it with him. And somebody 
17 else, at least one other person, maybe two other people, addressed it with him and was, 
18 like, this --you can't do this. I mean, the --you know, we're going --you just can't do 
19 this. It has to be an actual organization. We've got to make sure we're doing 
20 everything right. And he was, you know, going to do it his way or no way. 
21 And so, that was one of the areas that things started falling apart. And, as a 
22 matter of fact, Kylie said --I ended up not even speaking that day, because I stood 
23 upstairs in the Willard Hotel, looking at all the people coming from every corner of the 
24 Earth. And I could not believe that these --I mean, people had dropped everything in 
25 their lives to come to Washington D.C., not because they thought they were going to see  22 
1 President Trump or a Trump family member or something name, but because they love 
2 their country. And so I just stood up there in awe, not believe it. It still gives me chills 
3 when I think about it. 
4 But Kylie did say to Ali and to the rest of the team no one is to mention that Stop 
5 the Steal --I think it was stopthesteal.us. No one is to mention that on the stage, or else 
6 I'm pulling everybody. 
7 
8 
9 Q 
A 
Q And -­
So. 
--so the concern being, as you've said, is that he's --Ali is using this as a way 
10 to line his own pockets but not pay for the actual effort to do the rallies and do the work. 
11 Is that basically what it was? 
12 A Right. He didn't pay for one single thing. Women for America First paid 
13 for everything. 
14 And the one thing he told me he would handle was security. And so, I think it 
15 was Thursday morning, after my dad's memorial service, I get on the phone with him. 
16 And I'm, like, you know, what's the deal with security? And he --it was a volunteer 
17 security detail. And it just --it really upset me because, I mean, we needed true security 
18 people, dedicated, and they needed to be compensated. And so I went and hired 
19 security for that event, you know, separate from Ali. 
20 But it just, it was frustrating because it's, like, okay, we are paying for everything. 
21 This guy is constantly, you know, asking for money. He hasn't paid for one thing. And 
22 then you think he's going to handle the security and the volunteer security detail. 
23 Q And so there were a few things there. The security detail that you got, was 
24 that through Cindy Chafian's husband for that event, the 1AP guys? Or was it someone 
25 different? Do you remember?  1 
2 
3 
4 A 1AP was, that's who Ali got for that first event. 
Q Okay. That's who he got. Okay. 
A That's who he got. 
And I can't remember the name of the group. They were out of Virginia, and I 
5 think Cindy might have given me the guy's name or else I looked it up. But I contacted 
6 him and they were willing to do it, and they were very professional. And, I mean, I 
7 would work with them again. They were, I mean, a true security detail. 23 
8 Q And on that point, did you come down from the Willard at any point to be on 
9 the ground with people during the day? Or did you stay up and just kind of watch all the 
10 folks from the hotel? 
11 A You know, so when --when --after --when the rally was over, people 
12 started going, marching to the Supreme Court, I went to the Supreme Court, too. But all 
13 my team had already left and taken the golf carts. So I walked from the Willard to the 
14 Supreme Court. And then I got there and I --I mean, honestly I had a hard time even 
15 getting up to the stage, because it was so incredibly packed. I think one of our security 
16 guys got me and pulled me close to the stage but I didn't even speak on the stage at the 
17 Supreme Court. 
18 Q And the idea to go from Freedom Plaza to the Supreme Court, whose idea 
19 had that been in terms of planning? Was that something that you all had come up with, 
20 or Mr. Alexander or someone else? 
21 A So two things: One, it was kind of the consensus with everybody that it 
22 would end up at the Supreme Court anyway and so, you know, there --that's why we 
23 would go there. 
24 Q What would end up at the --I'm sorry. What would end up at the Supreme 
25 Court?  24 
1 A What, you know, like, when was it, in '92, the Bush and Gore thing, you 
2 know. 
3 Q So you mean the election, that it would be resolved in one way or the other 
4 by the Supreme Court is what you're talking about? 
5 
6 
7 A 
Q 
A Right. 
Okay. 
And so that was number one. 
8 But the other thing was that, like, the last three weeks of October, we were in D.C. 
9 for supporting Amy Coney Barrett and her nomination. And we knew that at the 
10 Supreme Court you didn't have to have --they won't give you a permit. It's first come, 
11 first serve. And so --and that's how we had handled everything at the Supreme Court. 
12 We, I mean, we were there a lot of days. So we knew how it was done. 
13 And so, it was --it --honestly, it was, you know, it's we're going to end up here 
14 anyway, and it's easier to get a stage and to have our guys --our sound guys show up with 
15 the stage at 6:00 a.m. and he's there until we get there instead of we knew that we 
16 weren't going to be able to get a permit from Congress, you know, to be on Capitol Hill at 
17 that point. We didn't think we could get it that fast. So it was just easier to go to the 
18 Supreme Court. 
19 Q So, I mean, you did have the stage at Freedom Plaza. So part of this must 
20 have been it's the symbolism of being at the Supreme Court and by the Capitol, I guess, as 
21 part of it, but also because you don't need a permit to do it. Is that fair? 
22 
23 A 
Q Yeah, it was --yeah, there was --we didn't need a permit. 
Okay. And the --your experience that day, were there any --was there any 
24 presence of counter protesters, who had become, whoever, that led to any sort of 
25 violence or clashes that you saw yourself?  25 
1 A So I did not see them. But the Supreme Court police officer kept saying to 
2 Kylie, because Kylie was running the show, and he kept saying to Kylie wrap it up. Wrap 
3 it up. 
4 And Louis Gohmert was there. And Louis kept bringing up all these new 
5 Members of Congress that had just been elected, Lauren Boebert, and I can't remember 
6 who else. I just remember Lauren was there, maybe Madison Cawthorn. But Louis 
7 kept bringing up all these people, these new members, and wanting them to speak. And 
8 this police officer's telling Kylie wrap it up, or you're going be in trouble. 
9 Well, the reasons he was telling her to wrap it up was because antifa was over at 
10 the church. I guess they had corralled antifa at the church to keep them away from us. 
11 And, you know, this was --it was, when was that, November, the sun was starting to go 
12 down, you know. And they wanted us out of there because they didn't think that they 
13 could keep them away from us much longer. 
14 And so, we wrapped it up and headed back to the hotel and then that night, 
15 literally, we were held hostage in the hotel, because antifa was outside of the hotel, 
16 throwing Molotov cocktails into the front doors of the Willard and into the cafe at the 
17 Willard. It was crazy. 
18 So, I mean, we couldn't leave to go get anything to eat. We ended up --the 
19 hotel was running out of stuff. It took, like, 3 hours to get room service. And, I mean, 
20 we had our whole team there. So that was the violence that happened that first event. 
21 Q And so when you say Molotov cocktails, just so I'm clear, and maybe that's 
22 just a --I mean, they're actually throwing in bottles that were on fire in oily rags or you 
23 just mean that they were, you know, throwing things generally? 
24 
25 A 
Q I mean, I wasn't there and -­
Oh, I see.  1 
2 
3 
4 fire. 
5 A 
Q 
A 
Q --and I didn't see it. 
Okay. 
But that's what everybody was saying, that it was literally bottles with --on 
And in terms of at the Supreme Court before you all left, the program, 
6 the --was there any sort of, I'll just use the term "drama," because I know come 
7 December there's some unfortunate interactions with Mr. Jones, or Alex Jones. But in 26 
8 November, how did the event itself go off at the Supreme Court in terms of the speakers 
9 and how that went, that you remember? 
10 A I mean, it was --I remember there being some drama with Alex Jones. But 
11 I think --I think there was drama with Alex Jones at that first event at the Supreme Court. 
12 Q Did he try to speak? 
13 A I think he did. I think --I think he maybe early before we got there, he 
14 went and got on the stage and, you know, was trying to rally people or whatever. And 
15 our security guys got him off. I think that was that rally. 
16 And then, when I believe it was that time --and, sorry, but it runs together, you 
17 know, those events. I believe he came walking by. He was going by with a big 
18 entourage, screaming at us and yelling at us, whatnot, and the crowd was going nuts and, 
19 you know, just harassing us. And that was pretty much it for that time. 
20 Q Now did you consider Alex Jones to be a part of the coalition, or do you 
21 know why it is he showed up in November for that event? 
22 A So, honestly, I don't know how Alex Jones became part of it, because he was 
23 never part of it. He was never part of it, that first event. And I don't know how he 
24 got --he became involved in it. I mean, I don't. 
25 Q In your view of him at the time and then going forward, did you have any  27 
1 concerns about, you know, the types of things Mr. Jones would say? Or is it mainly just 
2 about the way he, you know, behaved in trying to take the stage? Was it about the 
3 content of what he was saying or just, you know, his behavior? 
4 A I mean, listen, the guy is, I mean, nutty. And the things, you know, 
5 he's --and I just --life is hard enough. I don't have time for crazy. And I certainly don't 
6 want crazy at, you know, a big rally we're hosting. It would have never occurred to me 
7 to invite him. So I don't know how he got involved. 
8 But he obviously had a problem with us because it was that next event, December, 
9 when Kylie got to D.C. and he attacked her. She was getting out of her Uber there at the 
10 Willard. And I can't remember what else the guy --I mean, you know, there was just 
11 always some drama with Alex Jones. 
12 Q And speaking of just --and we'll stay on the topic of just kind of rhetoric and 
13 what people say. Mr. Alexander and the things he would say, did that raise any concern 
14 to you, the way he would describe, you know, you know, occupying capitals? I know 
15 you talked about that earlier. But did have you any view on whether the things he 
16 would say was different or gave you any concern versus what other folks in the coalition 
17 would say? 
18 A I didn't have any concern about the occupy capitals because I know what he 
19 meant, you know, having people there, a constant presence there. But, you know, he 
20 would say things like --oh, gosh, what was it he said? 
21 I remember specifically --Maggie, stop. 
22 I remember specifically he said something, like, freedom or death or something, 
23 that January 5th one, the night before the 6th. He --I mean, just stuff like that and I 
24 don't --I personally don't like that because I just I don't think that we should be out there 
25 inciting people.  28 
1 Q All right. So the type of language he would use, I think he said "victory or 
2 death," that --
A Yes, that language. 3 
4 Q Yeah, using language like that gave you concern about, as you said, inciting. 
5 And I guess it wasn't the way you spoke about things, I guess. Is that right? 
6 A Yeah, I'm not --I'm not like that. And I, I mean, I guess I would probably 
7 be --I'm passionate. I'm very passionate, and, I mean, I can get people fired up. But 
8 I'm not going to go out there and say victory or death. I mean, that's just, to me, that's 
9 ridiculous. And you don't know if somebody's going to take it seriously, right, or 
10 literally. So I just --I'm not a fan of that. 
11 And he --you know, he was one where he --it was always on the edge, kind of like 
12 Alex Jones. You know, like his rhetoric, Ali's rhetoric would be on the edge, just, you 
13 know, that line where I don't know if he was trying to, you know, make sure that 
14 somebody heard him so it would be quoted in the media or whatever. But he was 
15 always just pushing it. And, I mean, I'm just not a fan of that. 
16 Q So the --we'll get to President Trump coming by the November rally. But 
17 why don't we first start with this? Between November --after November 14th and 
18 when I think everyone, it was a success for the coalition, it seems like that's when you 
19 launched the bus tour to go around the country? Is that right? 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 A Right. That's --
Q Okay. 
A That's when we --it was, like, 2 or 3 days after that first rally --
Q Okay. 
A --when the lights went off in my --the light bulbs with the bus. 
Q The --and did you experience on the bus tour itself, were there any sort of  29 
1 incidents of violence, whether encountered demonstrators or otherwise, when you were 
2 out, outside of D.C. and traveling around the country? 
3 A We had several times where people would try to run the bus off the road. 
4 People threw eggs at the bus. That actually happened in D.C. 
5 And the only time that anything happened that was of a more serious thing --I 
6 mean, I guess it is serious, the bus being run off the road. But in Nashville, that was one 
7 of our big rallies on that tour. And there was a guy that had a Molotov cocktail that was 
8 going to throw it in the crowd. And one of our security guys saw him out of the corner 
9 of his eye. And I guess --I don't know if he got the police but, anyhow, they stopped 
10 him and the guy was arrested. That's the only thing that ever happened. 
11 Q And what was --what was the sentiment of the crowds and the people you 
12 were seeing on this part of the bus tour? You know, was it as strong as right after the 
13 election? Was it getting stronger? Was it going down? What was your sense of all of 
14 that? 
15 A Oh, no, it was --it was strong and getting stronger. As we got closer to 
16 D.C., I mean, you would have people that, --you would have people that weren't planning 
17 on going to Washington, and they'd show up at our rally. And by the end of the rally, I 
18 mean, it happened a number of times. People would come up and say, you know what, 
19 we've changed our minds. We're going home and packing our bags and we're going to 
20 meet you in D.C. 
21 Q I know one of the stops that at least you thought about doing again --tell me 
22 if you did. Did you go back to the Georgia State Capital on this leg of the tour between 
23 the two D.C. events? 
24 
25 A 
Q We did. 
You did.  1 
2 
3 A 
Q 
A We-­
Okay. 
We --I'm trying to remember what stops we cancelled but it was obvious 
4 that there was some funny business going on in Georgia, and I think maybe Virginia 30 
5 Beach. I can't remember where. But, anyhow, it was, like, we needed to have that bus 
6 in Atlanta and have a presence there. So we changed the schedule and we did --we did 
7 go back to Atlanta. 
8 Q Okay. And one of the articles I provided to Mr. Warrington yesterday, so 
9 hopefully you can review it and see it is, it's exhibit 13. We'll flash it up, but we'll just 
10 talk about it, Ms. Kremer. 
11 Were you aware of Ali Alexander and Alex Jones going into the Georgia State 
12 Capital on November 18th as part of the protest? 
13 A Well, first of all, you can call me Amy, but --
14 Q I've got to --if you'll excuse me, just for the record, I've got to --I've got to 
15 use the last name. It's just an old convention from court, but I appreciate that. 
16 A So I don't know if I knew about them going into the capital at the time. 
17 mean, I certainly knew about it afterwards. But I can tell you that we were going --we 
18 were going down to the capital on a Saturday. And it must have been the Saturday 
19 after --it must have been, like, the 21st, I guess. 
20 Anyway, we were going down, Women for America First, we were going down and 
21 we were going to do --you know, have a rally down there. But the thing is they --the 
22 Georgia State --the --they won't give you a permit at the capital. And the only way that 
23 we could do it, they said, was to have the police shut the streets down. Well, the police 
24 wouldn't shut the streets down. 
25 And so, Ali was down there, and I think Alex Jones was down there with him.  31 
1 And we ended up not going because we did not want to be part of whatever they were 
2 doing. Just, I mean, you just never know. I just --we didn't want to be part of it. So 
3 we just said to our supporters, you know, we're going to cancel. And that was it. 
4 Q So by this point, and after the November rally in D.C. and then a few days 
5 later down in Atlanta, is it fair that you no longer wanted to be associated with Ali 
6 Alexander and Alex Jones going forward? 
7 
8 
9 A 
Q 
A Right. 
Okay. 
Well, we were never --that's the thing is, I mean, I don't know what Alex 
10 Jones came into the picture. But we were never affiliated or worked with --I don't ever 
11 recall him being on one of those conference calls with us. I mean, I --I don't know when 
12 he came into the picture. 
13 Q But you do end up back in D.C. on December 12th at Freedom Plaza again for 
14 a permitted event that Women for America First held. Is that right? 
15 
16 A 
Q Right. 
Okay. And as I --as we understand it, you know, Ali Alexander came back, 
17 but he didn't do the event with you as a coalition. Is that it he had his own event 
18 somewhere else in the city? 
19 A Yeah, he did something. I don't remember what they did. They did some 
20 prayer thing or something. And, again, it was, you know, at the same time. It's fine. 
21 I mean, look, you're not going to get along with everybody all the time. I mean, that's 
22 just human nature and life. But I mean, they didn't have to do it at the same time we 
23 were doing ours. I mean, you split the crowd. And we all should be together for the 
24 numbers. So, but anyhow, I mean, it doesn't surprise me that Ali did that.  32 
1 
2 [11:06 a.m.] 
3 BY 
4 Q And is that your sense, Ms. Kremer, that he followed your lead? You 
5 announced he'd be back in D.C. on December 12th, and then he shows up with his 
6 competing event? 
7 
8 A 
Q Yeah. I mean, pretty much that is what --I feel like that is what happened. 
In terms of the event itself on December 12th, it seemed to follow the same 
9 pattern, which was you start at Freedom Plaza and then go to the Supreme Court for 
10 speeches. Is that right? 
11 A Correct. 
12 Q Okay. And just for the same reasons that, as in November, to just have 
13 that place in Freedom Plaza and then go up to where you think the election might end up 
14 at the Supreme Court? 
15 
16 
17 A 
Q 
A Yes. 
Okay. And were there --
If I recall, I think they were doing construction at the Capitol too. And so 
18 that was another reason we couldn't get a permit for the Capitol. 
19 Q Was there any --during the rally and the march itself, was there any 
20 incidents of violence of a similar sort that you have described, that you remember? 
21 A Not that I recall. But I do think again antifa was there, and they were 
22 corralling them, you know, to keep us separate. And that is really all I can remember. 
23 Q And were there any friction between the coalition members during that day 
24 or everyone had their separate events and it went off relatively smoothly? 
25 A Yeah. It went off relatively --Maggie, stop --it went off relatively  33 
1 smoothly. I don't remember any problems with anyone that I can recall. But there 
2 could have been --I don't know. You know, like, Dustin Stockton or somebody who was 
3 part of our team, he could have had a problem with somebody. I mean, I don't know. 
4 There was nothing that I was aware of that I can recall. 
5 Q At both November and the December D.C. rallies, you know, public reporting 
6 shows that there was a presence of members of the Proud Boys and the Oath Keepers. 
7 Were you familiar at that time of either or both of those organizations? 
8 A I mean, honestly, I didn't even know who the Proud Boys were. I had heard 
9 of the Oath Keepers before, but not in --I wasn't familiar with them. 
10 Q Had you asked people from either of those groups then to be security for the 
11 march or for the rallies at either locations? 
12 
13 
14 A 
Q 
A No. I wouldn't even know who to go to reach out to them. 
Do you remember who you used for security in December in D.C.? 
Yeah. We used RMS Protective Services. And we also hired the --that 
15 first security company that we used for November 14th, we hired them again to be 
16 security at the Supreme Court. 
17 Q There is a name we have seen, Charles Bowman, does he work with the 
18 security? Do you know that gentleman? 
19 A I know, I do know Bowman. He --1 mean, he worked --I don't know that he 
20 technically works with them, but --like as an employee, but I know he, you know, works 
21 with those guys. 
22 Q Okay. So the folks that you used for November and it sounds like 
23 December or at least some of them, Bowman somehow worked with them? 
24 A Yeah. I mean Bowman was --I don't how to describe Bowman. He's like a 
25 big brother that's always --you know, it was like he was always looking out for us and  34 
1 making sure, you know, that we were safe and whatnot. 
2 Q Okay. You know, I previewed for Mr. Warrington last night that one of the 
3 things we wanted to ask you about is an email in exhibit 10. So we are going to bring it 
4 up. 
5 
6 A 
Q Okay. 
This is not related to security, Ms. Kremer. It's about a group call 
7 Groundswell that is I think one that Ginni Thomas is affiliated with. Do you see this 
8 email, or can you see it on your screen? 
9 
10 A 
Q I do see it. 
Okay. Just to cut to the chase, there is been a lot of, you know, speculation 
11 that we have seen about whether or not Ms. Thomas was involved with any of the rallies 
12 or coordinating. And so can you give us your perspective on whether she was involved 
13 with any of the rallies we have been talking about. And then also this email where it 
14 seems like you spoke to the Groundswell group at least on one day. 
15 A Yeah. So, I mean, she was not involved. She was not involved at all. 
16 was invited to speak to the Groundswell group, and I did it, I mean, because when you are 
17 doing big events like that, you want to get the word out, and it is coalition building. And 
18 so I got on the Groundswell call. And I believe we were on the bus and told them, you 
19 know, what we were doing and, you know, our stops and whatnot. And that was it. 
20 And I don't think I talked to Ginni after that. 
21 
22 
23 Q 
A 
Q So Ms. Thomas was on for that call, you remember, with other folks? 
You know what,. I honestly can't recall. 
Okay. Is Ms. Thomas someone that you know just through doing all the 
24 political work and in coalition building you have come across? 
25 A Yes. I met her back at the very beginning of the Tea Party movement.  35 
1 And, I mean, I know her. But she --the thing is, at the beginning of the Tea Party 
2 movement when Tea Party Patriots and I went our separate ways, there were people that 
3 took sides. And Ginni Thomas took this, instead of just remaining neutral and working 
4 with everybody, she took the side of Jenny Beth Martin. So, you know, it is not like I 
5 have had a relationship with her. I certainly know her. I am kind to her, that sort of 
6 thing. But I can't --and then I was invited to be part of Groundswell when it first 
7 started. And somebody leaked it to the press. And so they kicked me and a couple 
8 other people out. I wasn't the one that leaked it to the press. So, I mean, it is very 
9 rare that I talk to Ginni or have anything to do with her. 
10 
11 
12 
13 Q Okay. To your knowledge --
Mr. Warrington. I -­
- Oh, go ahead. 
Mr. Warrington. I want to point something out now that we are talking about 
14 leaking. Ms. Kremer's phone number is unredacted here. 
15 We will redact it, David. It is a good point. We will take care of 
16 it? 
17 BY 
18 Q So, Ms. Kremer, just to your knowledge, did Ms. Thomas have anything to do 
19 with the rallies that you put on in D.C., whether in November or December of 2020 or 
20 January 6th? 
21 
22 
23 
24 A 
Q No. She did not. 
Did you --
A --to my knowledge. 
do with November and December. 
25 January 6th, I was not aware of it. I mean, I can tell you for sure that she had nothing to 
And if she had anything to do, you know, with  36 
1 Q And I will show you on this exhibit on page 3 --again, this is an email chain 
2 about you doing the call with Groundswell on December 2nd of 2020 --and right there in 
3 the middle --actually, towards the bottom. And this is an email from Sandy Rios to you. 
4 She's the director of governmental affairs. She says, if you can read it there: What we 
5 are looking for is a great presentation on your bus tour, the D.C. event, et al. Any 
6 thoughts you have on what is happening in Georgia would be good too. We have 
7 invited Lin Wood to do a major presentation on that and possibly Jenny Beth as well. As 
8 soon as we have confirmations, I can be more specific. But your main assignment is to 
9 bring us up to date on these events so we can help. 
10 And so just that part about "we can help," did Groundswell provide any help after 
11 this that you know for your events? 
12 A No. I mean, when I interpreted that --and I think it is what they meant --is 
13 getting the word out through their networks, which I assume they did, you know. 
14 Everybody that is part of Groundswell is part of the, you know, individual org --a separate 
15 organization and whatnot. And so I just assumed it was getting the word out. Nobody 
16 ever helped from Groundswell. 
17 
18 Q 
A Okay. 
I don't even know who was part of Groundswell other than Judicial Watch 
19 and Ginni Thomas and I guess Tea Party Patriots. I have no idea who else is really part of 
20 it. 
21 Q We are almost at a natural breaking point. So are you okay to go for say 10 
22 more min --maybe even less than 10 minutes. Is that all right? 
23 
24 A 
Q Yeah, I am fine. 
Okay. So one of things you brought up, you talked about, in November, 
25 Mr. Gohmert had brought different new Members of Congress up to speak. And that  37 
1 just raises the question of coordination with Members of Congress with regard to the 
2 events that you were running, and it has become, you know, a focus of some folks in the 
3 press. So I sent an article to Mr. Warrington last night for you to take a look at on this 
4 point. 
5 So I will bring up, if we can, exhibit 16. And you might recognize this. This is a 
6 Rolling Stone article from October 24th, 2021. And the title is "Jan. 6 Protest Organizers 
7 Say They Participated in 'Dozens' of Planning Meetings with Members of Congress and 
8 White House Staff." And, just so we can talk about it, I am going to ask that we go to 
9 page three. 
10 A Good old Hunter Walker. 
11 Q That is the reporter. Yes, ma'am. So, right there, the second full 
12 paragraph says --I'll just read it: Along with Greene --I believe that is a reference to Ms. 
13 Marjorie Taylor Greene --conspiratorial pro-Trump Republican from Georgia who took 
14 officer earlier this year, the pair --and the pair is a reference to two anonymous sources 
15 in the article --both say the Members who participated in these conversations or had top 
16 staffers join in included Rep. Paul Gosar, Representative Lauren Boe be rt, Representative 
17 Mo Brooks, Representative Madison Cawthorn, Representative Andy Biggs, and 
18 Representative Louie Gohmert. And it continues on to quote the anonymous organizer: 
19 We would talk to Boebert's team, Cawthorn's team, Gosa r's team like back to back to 
20 back to back. 
21 So that just raises the issue --
22 Actually, let me pause right here at 11:18. I see that David Warrington, your 
23 attorney, seems to have dropped up because of connection issues. Oh, there he is. 
24 
25 Mr. Warrington. There we go. 
He's back.  1 
2 
3 Mr. Warrington. Was that me, or was that you guys? 
- Oh, it flashed on the screen that you were off. 
Mr. Warrington. Oh. Well, it flashed on the screen that both you and Amy 
4 were off so let me know. 
5 BY-
6 Q So can you talk, Ms. Kremer, about just the outreach, if any, that you and 38 
7 your team had --let's just focus on 2020, after the election --with Members of Congress? 
8 And if you did have outreach, what was that about? 
9 A Well, I am just going to I mean be blunt because that is the way I am. This 
10 article is complete bullshit. Dustin Stockton and Jennifer Lawrence are the sources on 
11 this. And Dustin is mad at the world, and that is why he went and did this. We did not 
12 have back to back to back conversations with them. And the only time that any of the 
13 team that I am aware of would contact any Member --well, usually if it was a Member of 
14 Congress, I was the one contacting because I have the relationships. But we were 
15 reaching out to him to invite him to speak at a rally. I mean, that was it. I mean, truly 
16 that was it. 
17 And I --like, I don't think he ever talked to Mo Brooks. So it is just --I mean, it is 
18 all bull. Now Dustin and Jen were talking to Gosar and Gosa r's chief of staff. And they 
19 were absolutely convinced that they were going to get a pardon, even though they had 
20 not been charged for anything with We Build the Wall. They were convinced that the 
21 President was going to give them a pardon. And when he did not pardon them and he 
22 only pardoned Bannon, they were so angry, so angry. And I mean, quite frankly, they 
23 never got over it. Dustin never got over it. So that is part of where his anger is coming 
24 from now. He feels like he's been sold out by the Conservative movement, the MAGA 
25 movement. And so he's out --it is like he's a cornered animal, and he's out to get  39 
1 everyone. 
2 But I know he was working with Gosar and Gosa r's chief of staff, but I was not 
3 privy to that. I had no idea. And whenever he would mention the pardon, I would just 
4 kind of turn away and roll my eyes because I just thought it was farfetched and it was not 
5 going to happen. 
6 Q All right. So, understanding all of that, what you know to be true then is 
7 that if there was any outreach, you know, it was about whether people would appear at 
8 rallies. Is that right? 
9 A Right. 
10 Q So was there any sort of strategizing with, again based to your knowledge, 
11 with Members or their staffs about, you know, where to go and do rallies and the types of 
12 speakers, and any of those sorts of issues? 
13 A No. It was just --I mean, seriously, it was just asking them to come and 
14 speak, you know, in Washington or if we were in Atlanta, you know, if Marjorie 
15 could --whatever, wherever we could get them. But they did not help --I mean, Dustin 
16 and I put that first --the first tour together because we had done it, and he had worked 
17 with me at Tea Party Express. And so, you know, it is --our bus tours were not like, say, 
18 a Trump campaign bus tour where they go do and event, and then they have the bus 
19 there, and then they get on a private jet and go to the next one 3 days later. I mean, we 
20 are doing events every single day. And so Dustin and I worked together on that. And 
21 we put --the first tour together, and then the second tour, I rewrote that tour myself 
22 because I wanted --I rewrote it to pressure the Senators because we wanted them to 
23 agree to contest the electoral college. So I rewrote that myself like Christmas Eve or 
24 Christmas night in my hotel room. So no one ever told us where to go. I just knew 
25 Senators I had a relationship with, what Senators would probably do it, and that is where  40 
1 we went. 
2 Q And we will get to that in just a moment, but that is helpful to understand 
3 that context. 
4 And just focusing on this paragraph that is here, because the thrust of the article I 
5 think you will agree is that somehow there were, you know, a lot more involvement of 
6 these Members than just simply logistics for showing up. Right? And so, when you 
7 react to it the way you did about calling it bullshit, is it because of that, the sense that it 
8 was more than just logistics? 
9 A Yeah. I mean, it is complete --obviously, you get what they are trying to 
10 say here. And, I mean, it is bullshit. It is complete bullshit. And, I mean, no one was 
11 talking to these --I mean what could they do? I mean, Marjorie Taylor Greene wasn't a 
12 Member yet. Lauren Boe be rt wasn't a Member yet. So, I mean, it is just --it is absurd, 
13 quite frankly. 
14 Q But, just in terms of the facts, did you reach out to --it sounds like, let's 
15 focus on November. Did you or someone on your team talk to Ms. Greene? I will just 
16 list the names, Mr. Gosar, Ms. Boebert, Mr. Brooks, Mr. Cawthorn, Mr. Biggs, or 
17 Mr. Gohmert, any of those, about appearing at the November rally, that you remember? 
18 A I never talked to Gosar or Biggs. And I never talked to Mo Brooks, I don't 
19 think. I never talked to Lauren Boe be rt until I saw her at the Supreme Court. And I 
20 don't remember if that was the first or second rally. I never talked to Madison 
21 Cawthorn because he got to the Supreme Court, I think, before I did. And I had not even 
22 met him at that point. And then Louie --I mean, honestly, I don't know --I can't 
23 remember if I --I can't remember if I reached out to Louie, or maybe Kylie did. 
24 Honestly, I can't remember. But, I mean, it would have been, you know: Can you 
25 come speak at our rally? That is how general it would have been.  1 Q Okay. And the same for Ms. Greene? I don't know; was she at the 
2 November rally or not? 
3 
4 
5 A 
Q You know, you may think I am nuts, but I honestly can't remember. 
No, that is fine. 
For the December rally in D.C., is any of that different? Did you talk to all of 
6 these or some of these folks about appearing at that? 
7 A I could have. I mean, I know that --and the reason I know this is because 41 
8 they did videos for me. I did ask Marsha Blackburn, and she couldn't come, but she did 
9 a video for us to play on the Jumbotron. John Rich, the country music star, he couldn't 
10 come, but he did a video for us to play on the Jumbotron. And I can't honestly 
11 remember who else. 
12 I mean, also~ you have to understand too that like that, you know, you go 
13 into it thinking we don't have enough speakers, we've got to get speakers. Well, then 
14 the day of the event, and you have got speakers coming out the Yin Vang. And what 
15 should have been an hour rally ends up being two-and-a-half-hour rally. Everybody and 
16 their brother wanted to speak. I mean, so that was one thing that we really struggled 
17 with. You know, cutting it down, giving people --making sure people had a chance. 
18 But making sure it was a short, you know, a short speech because we were trying to get 
19 everybody in. So it wasn't like, if these Members of Congress couldn't show up, it is not 
20 like we had a big hole in our program. 
21 Q You already answered one of the questions I was going to get to with 
22 Senator Blackburn that makes sense. It looks like you wrote a --you helped her write a 
23 video or a script to present at the December rally. Is that right? 
24 A Did I write that? I don't know; I may have. I can't --I mean, honestly, I 
25 can't remember honestly. I just remember she did the video.  42 
Okay. 
Maybe Marjorie did a video too. I honestly can't remember. 1 
2 
3 Q 
A 
Q Okay. I can show you, but there is no need. But I will show you if we look 
4 at exhibit 2, these are just the text messages between you and Kylie. And, if we can look 
5 at page 235. There is a reference that you will see --if we just go down a little bit --that 
6 Senator Cruz texted you. This is on November 26th of 2020. Do you know --did that 
7 have anything to do with your rallies? Do you know? 
8 A No. It --I think he just texted me to tell me Happy Thanksgiving. 
9 Q Okay. All right. You know, the next topic I was going to move into is just 
10 the next leg of the bus tour, but really it starts getting into January 6th. Do you want to 
11 take a break or just keep going? 
12 
13 A 
Q No. I am good to keep going. 
Okay. After the December 12th event, did you already have a plan in place 
14 to continue the bus tour, or did you wait, as you talked about, until Christmas or 
15 Christmas Eve to start thinking about the next leg? 
16 A So we knew that we were going to do --that we were going to go back for 
17 January 6th. Cindy had already put in for the permits, I believe. And one of the things, 
18 you know, one of the reasons a bus is so expensive is the wrap on the bus. I mean, the 
19 wrap can cost $30,000 or whatever. And we already had the bus wrapped. And so, 
20 you know, when you have a bus wrapped, if you are not using it, you have to pay for it, 
21 like $500 a day or whatever it is. I have no idea. But it was like we can't --I mean, we 
22 just need to keep the bus going. And California, the Conservatives in California are 
23 always like: Y'all never come here. We are always left out. You know, we are like 
24 the step children. 
25 And so I said to the team: Let's go to California. I mean, this is a perfect  43 
1 opportunity to go to California. 
2 And so the bus needed work done on it. So we left D.C. and went to Nashville, 
3 where the bus is --that is home for the bus. And they did whatever they needed to do 
4 for the bus --to the bus. And then we left, and we started --we headed west. 
5 And we got to Las Vegas, and I think we got there that night. And Ray, our bus 
6 driver, the next morning, a lot of people flew out to go back home to be with their 
7 families at Christmas. Or I say "a lot," I mean a number of people did. So we stayed 
8 there until --I mean, for several days. And then I guess everybody probably came back 
9 on the 27th. And then we started the tour back going. 
10 Q And one of the --on that point about being at Vegas, if we can look at exhibit 
11 17. You know, one of the --another one of Hunter Walker I think the Rolling Stone 
12 articles; this is from November. And you can see it there. It says, "Jan 6 Organizers 
13 Used Anonymous Burner Phones to Communicate with White House and Trump Family, 
14 Sources Say." 
15 
16 A 
Q Right. 
So I just want to stay on this for a second. And let me see here. We are 
17 going to look at --so you see there that --let me ask this: Do you understand who the 
18 sources for this story are? Do you have your thoughts on who it is? 
19 A Dustin, and Jen, and that third person is Scott Johnston, who is somebody 
20 that Dustin brought along as his assistant. 
21 Q All right. And so the thrust of this story is that, while you all were out in 
22 California, that Kylie had the unnamed third person buy burner phones using cash. 
23 think it said buy three burner phones, one for her, Kylie, one for you, and I guess another 
24 one for someone unknown. To your knowledge, did that happen, Ms. Kremer? 
25 A No. It didn't happen. And this story is total bullshit too. And, I mean,  44 
1 that --the thing is Hunter Walker's written some stories where he got information, you 
2 know, from Dustin and Jen, whatever. You know, where they would elaborate, like: 
3 Yes, we did order charcuterie, but no, we didn't order the champagne. My friend Pam 
4 brought the champagne to the suite. 
5 But they write this story, and they embellish it and all of this. And, you know, 
6 there is a hint of truth it. This story about the burner phones is absolutely 100 percent 
7 false. Nothing in it is true, nothing. I wouldn't even know where to get a burner 
8 phone if I needed one. 
9 Q And did you have any concerns, Ms. Kremer, about communicating with 
10 politicians that you knew using your own phone? 
11 A No. I have always --I mean, I have always used my own phone. I mean, 
12 they know --whoever I am communicating with usually has me saved in their contacts. 
13 And, honestly, I mean, in today's world, where he get so much spam and whatnot on our 
14 cell phones, I mean, I would think if you used a burner phone, they probably wouldn't 
15 even answer because they wouldn't know who was calling. I mean, it is just absurd. 
16 Q So, on the point about you using your on phone to communicate with people 
17 and coming back to Las Vegas, let's look at exhibit 22. Do you remember reaching out 
18 to Lara Trump about being able to park the bus in front of the hotel in Las Vegas I believe 
19 it is? 
20 
21 
22 A 
Q 
A I did reach out to her. 
Okay. 
Yes. 
23 Q Or Kylie, I should say, but you were on the chat with Lara Trump. Is that 
24 right, all three of you together? 
25 A Oh, was it all three of us? I don't know. I know that I reached out.  45 
1 Q You did. We will look at that in a moment. And then Kylie was also on 
2 there. 
3 But was this your own phone that you used to text Lara Trump in your own name? 
4 
5 A 
Q 
6 her for? 
7 A Yes. It was my phone. 
All right. And how did you know Ms. Trump or how long had you known 
I've known her for several years. I mean, she's come to some of our events 
8 before. I mean, you know, we just have been at some events. And she came. She 
9 was one of our keynote speakers at a conference, a Women for Trump conference we 
10 had back in 2018. And I think that was the first time I ever met her in person. But, I 
11 mean, she's honestly a lovely person. She's just a regular person just like us. 
12 Q And, on the reach-out, can you just in your own words why you needed to 
13 reach out to her on this day? 
14 A Yeah. So one of the reasons that I reached out --or the main reason I 
15 reached out to her is because we were going to be in Vegas; we were going to stay at 
16 Trump International in Vegas, and it was over Christmas holiday. So the bus driver was 
17 going to fly home to be with his family, and that meant we needed to have a secure 
18 location for the bus to be parked. And so I reached out to the hotel to see if they had a 
19 secure location, if we could park it up front. And they told --I believe he said, you know: 
20 We can't do that for --I mean, because of the political nature or whatever. 
21 
22 And I said: Well, I have contacts with the family; I may reach out. 
He said: If you have contacts with the family, reach out to them because they 
23 can do it. 
24 And so I reached out to Lara, and if I remember correctly, I mean, it was done like 
25 in 30 minutes.  46 
1 Q And it does look that way. And if we go to page 2 of this document where 
2 we see your first text message to her --we can go down to the bottom. It is on 
3 December 21st of 2020. And I will just read a bit of it, but this is you saying: Hey, Lara, 
4 you know, hope you all are well and ready for Christmas. And you go on to explain the 
5 bus issue. And you tell her in the third paragraph: We will be returning to D.C. on 
6 January 6th for another protest. I would expect this protest to be larger than the ones 
7 we had in November and December. We would love to have you and Eric join us that 
8 day in D.C., either or both of you are welcome. If you need additional information or 
9 details, please do not hesitate to reach out to Kylie or me. 
10 And then you see above that that Ms. Trump writes back that same day, a few 
11 hours later to say: Thank you Amy. Jan 6th is Eric's birthday, but definitely appreciate 
12 the gravity of that day overall. We will let you know if we are in D.C. Merry Christmas. 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 So just a normal text exchange, as you have described. 
A 
Q 
A 
Q Right. 
Fair to say? 
Yeah. Just completely normal. 
Okay. And, by this point, and we are going to turn to this, by this point on 
18 December 21st, the President has already tweeted out about the protest in D.C., but this 
19 is before you connected with Caroline Wren. Does that sound about right to you in 
20 terms chiming? 
21 A -I just want to clarify one thing on the Lara Trump thing. 
22 
23 Q 
A Oh, sure. 
Because that article talks about, you know, communicating with Eric Trump 
24 and the Trump family. Lara Trump is the only person that I even have her phone 
25 number.  1 
2 Q 
A 47 
I was going to get to that. 
Yeah. She's the only one. I don't have Don Jr.'s. And, honestly, I don't 
3 think I have Kimberly Guilfoyle's number. I know I have Kimberly's email address. But 
4 Lara is the only one that I have a phone number for. 
5 Q Okay. Fair enough. But, certainly by this point --you know, you are 
6 telling her you are coming back to D.C. --it doesn't appear from this that you all have 
7 talked about January 6th before this so that she was somehow or that the Trump family 
8 was involved in planning for your event at this time. Is that fair? 
9 
10 
11 A 
Q 
A Yeah. I mean, they were never involved. 
Okay. 
I should say they were never involved with our team. I was not aware until 
12 later that Kimberly Guilfoyle was working with Caroline Wren. 
13 Q So I think it is helpful to look now at just a series of tweets to set us up in 
14 going into the 6th. So, if we look at exhibit 12, I think what I will just do, Ms. Kremer, 
15 just read the first few pages and then stop. But let me start with this one, and 
16 highlighted there on page 1, it is a tweet from Kylie, on December 16th of 2020, saying: 
17 We have some very exciting news coming soon for the #marchfortrump. 
18 And then, on page 2, and we will show you, at the bottom first of page 2, so you 
19 can see the time. And just a few minutes later, on December 16th, at 5:39 p.m., and we 
20 go back up there, we see Kylie tweets out: Our incredible team at @americalstwomen 
21 has put on the two largest events that the American people have ever put on for a 
22 POTUS. #marchfortrump has sent shock waves around the world that we the people 
23 will be heard. Help us keep fighting. 
24 And then there is an image there. And, in that image, it says: After our second 
25 massive March for Trump in D.C., we are keeping the buses going leading to our next  48 
1 massive rally January 6th in D.C. 
2 And then, on the next page, the Women for Trump Twitter account sends out: 
3 Keep rolling Patriots. Never, ever back down. 
4 It retweets Kylie's post. And this is also on December 16th at 5:45 p.m. All of 
5 which is to ask you, after that --actually, let's go to page 4 and then 5. This will help. If 
6 we look at page 4 in terms of timing, this is a little bit hard to follow because Mr. Ali 
7 Alexander's Twitter account got taken down. So I am just going to walk you through this 
8 so you can see, but at the top, you see a tweet from Mike Coudrey saying: 2 days ago 
9 #stopthesteal founder @Ali, announced our coalition was doing a protest in D.C. on 
10 January 6. 
11 If you go down and you look, Mr. Coudrey sends that on December 19th, at 8:17 
12 in the morning. And then, down below that, he links to a tweet from --he retweets or 
13 get a screen capture of a tweet that Ali Alexander had sent out 2 days prior. And so, if 
14 you do 2 days prior, it is December 17th, so a day after Kylie had sent her tweets. And 
15 here's Ali saying #StoptheSteal protests, and he's giving locations. And the last one he 
16 lists is January 6 in D.C. Okay. And then --so, again, on December 17th he's saying 
17 this, a day after you all. 
18 And then, on the next page --this is the last one we will go through right 
19 now --this is the tweet that President Trump sends on December 19th, so after both of 
20 you, going back up saying: Big protest in D.C. on January 6th. Be there, will be wild. 
21 
22 Okay. 
So I did all this timeline to ask this: It sounds like you all decided to come back to 
23 D.C. before anyone talked about there being a protest. You were the first to say we are 
24 going to be back in town on the 6th. Is that fair? As much as you can remember? 
25 A I think that is probably fair.  49 
1 Q And then, like you described the December event, it looks like Ali Alexander, 
2 after you announced that you are coming back to the D.C. on the 6th, he says that his 
3 group is coming back to D.C. on the 6th. Do you remember that happening that he was 
4 basically piggybacking off you all? 
5 A I mean, it seemed like he was. But I also know that there was talk with 
6 activists and with leaders with the movement, you know, that we will go back December 
7 12th because that Monday is when the States actually certified their electors. So we will 
8 go back to D.C. on the December 12th, and when they would certified the electoral 
9 college was January 6th. So we would go back to D.C. for January 6th. And there was 
10 chatter about that. But, again, nobody was doing anything. So we had the bus, and 
11 we put it out there. And I honestly, I mean, I don't even know what Ali was doing. 
12 Q Okay. So you have explained what was going to happen in D.C. on January 
13 6th. You understood it was going to be the certification of the electoral college vote by 
14 Congress? 
15 
16 A 
Q Right. 
Okay. So, just from your perspective, what was the purpose of 
17 bringing --of doing another rally in D.C. on January 6th to have people come back to 
18 town? To do what? 
19 A I mean, to have our voices heard. I go back to ObamaCare and the 
20 weekend that they passed ObamaCare. I think we had rallies like for 3 consecutive days, 
21 stood outside the Capitol chanting and singing to Nancy Pelosi for hours on end, you 
22 know, hoping to put pressure on them to maybe get one Congressman not to vote for it. 
23 I mean, anything we could do to, you know, have our voices heard. So we knew that 
24 they were --the electoral college was to be certified that day. And we knew that there 
25 were a number of Congressmen, I believe starting with Mo Brooks, that were going to  50 
1 contest the electoral college. So our objective was to put pressure on the Senators, 
2 because they couldn't do it without the Senators. They needed Senators to be involved. 
3 So, as I said before, I think, you know, we knew what Senators we had 
4 relationships with and who might do it and whatnot. So we rerouted the bus to go in 
5 that direction. But, honestly, -by the time we got to D.C., we had already 
6 accomplished what we set out to accomplish because Hawley said he was going to 
7 contest the electoral college. Then Ted Cruz did. Then Marsha Blackburn. I think 
8 there were 11 other Senators. That was what we set out to accomplish. That is what 
9 we wanted to accomplish. And we had done it by the time we got to D.C. So we were 
10 going to have this big, beautiful rally; then we were going back to the hotel to watch this 
11 historical, you know, session --joint session of Congress play out for the world to see 
12 because we --I mean, we thought that the evidence was going to be laid out, and that 
13 was what we had all wanted to see what was going to be presented. And so --
14 Q Well, we are going to get to the day for sure. But I appreciate that as the 
15 perspective coming in. And, on December 16th, when you announce it, I think, as you 
16 said, it took a couple of weeks, but Senator Hawley I think was the first one. I think 
17 December 30th is what you said is when he announced that he would challenge, and then 
18 more came after --or object. 
19 But, on that date, December 16th, when you announced --you see that President 
20 Trump 3 days later says, you know: Come to D.C. on January 6th. Be there, will be 
21 wild. 
22 I just have to ask the obvious question, had you coordinated with anybody at the 
23 White House or anybody in the Trump family with your announcement on December 
24 16th that you were coming back to D.C.? Were they involved in any way? Or had you 
25 talked to anybody about that?  No. 
Okay. 
No. 
All right. 
Not on December 16th, no one. 51 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q Okay. Now and this brings us back to the November and December rallies. 
7 As I said, we would come back to President Trump, his appearances. So, on November 
8 14th, if you remember, that is the one where President Trump drove by in the 
9 motorcade. Do you remember that? Did you see that from the hotel? 
10 A I was upstairs, and I couldn't believe what was happening. And so I --I 
11 watched it from the hotel room upstairs when he did that. 
12 Q And what was the impact on the crowd from what you could tell just from 
13 observing it from the hotel when he did that? 
14 A So it was early. It was still in the morning, I believe, because the --it wasn't 
15 the full crowd yet. I mean, they were able to drive around and people were chasing the 
16 car, and you know, taking pictures and whatnot. I mean, there was a lot of excitement. 
17 People couldn't believe that here he comes in the motorcade. And it was just a real, you 
18 know --I mean, for some people, it was the highlight of their life. We didn't know that 
19 was going to happen. We never expected it. I certainly wouldn't expect him to come 
20 driving through there, you know, in his motorcade. But it was just very exciting for 
21 everybody. 
22 Q Right on the --I lost my train of thought. Oh, I know what I was going to 
23 ask. The December rally he flies over. Is that right? In Marine One, the helicopter? 
24 
25 A 
Q Right. He was on his way to the Army-Navy game, I think. 
And were you outside when he did that?  1 
2 
3 Plaza? 
4 
5 
6 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 52 
Yes. I was. 
Were you all at the Supreme Court by then, or were you still at Freedom 
No. We were still at Freedom Plaza. And --
What was the reaction at that time when he flew over? 
Oh, my God. I mean, the crowd just went nuts. Because, you know, it 
7 was --look, we are there to support him. I mean, that is what we were there for; it was 
8 a March for Trump. We're there to support them. But he wasn't there. He wasn't 
9 talking about us on Twitter or whatever. And it was a way of telling all the people in the 
10 crowd: Hey, I know you're here, and I know you are supporting me. It was 
11 acknowledging them. And it was really a big deal to, you know, everybody there. And, 
12 I mean, again, probably the highlight of several people's lives. 
13 Q And that brings up a preview for Mr. Warrington last night, the text 
14 messages you had with Mark Meadows before and in and around the November and 
15 December events. So I know you pulled together a lot of documents and at great 
16 personal expense, which we appreciate and empathize with. And we didn't see --I don't 
17 think I saw the text messages with Mr. Meadows in your production. So what I did is 
18 describe for Mr. Warrington what we have from Mr. Meadows himself. Do you still 
19 have or were you able to take a look and see if you still have those text messages in your 
20 phone with Mr. Meadows? 
21 A So I am sure I do. And I don't know, because when I pulled my text 
22 messages I literally pulled with program that Kylie gave me, November 1st to whatever it 
23 was, January 8 or 9th. And I am sure there were probably text messages in there, like, 
24 between my mother and I or whatever, but I just gave them all. 
25 Q Okay. All right. Whatever the case, we will address that with Mr.  53 
1 Warrington, but not a problem. 
2 If we can look at exhibit 3, this is our compilation of the texts that we have. And 
3 it is small print, but I read them for Mr. Warrington yesterday. But I just want to go 
4 through a few. I will read them out loud and see if they ring a bell. Okay? 
5 So, November 13th of 2020, so the day before the rally, you text Mr. Meadows: 
6 Hey Mark. I hope you are feeling better! If you find out POTUS is coming to our rally 
7 here in D.C., can you please let me know for logistical purposes? Also, for clarification 
8 purposes, my organization is the only group who has a permit. I would be mum, but just 
9 trying to get ahead of the curve for less chaos. Thanks Mark! 
10 And he then responds to you a few minutes later that afternoon: There are no 
11 current plans to do so. 
12 You write back: Okay. I just saw his tweet, and so, as you can imagine, our 
13 phones are blowing up about this. Thanks so much Mark! 
14 He writes back: Yes. If we did, it will be last minute due to security. But 
15 nothing planned currently. 
16 So I guess we should start with how did you know Mr. Meadows? How do you 
17 know him? 
18 A So I helped when he was running for Congress --was that 2012, I think? 
19 When he was running for Congress, we actually endorsed him and took the Tea Party 
20 Express bus there to support him and do a rally for him. And then, after he was elected, 
21 when we were doing the repeal ObamaCare --yeah, repeal ObamaCare, when we were 
22 trying to get ObamaCare repealed, he was a new Congressman at that point. And he 
23 was in trouble with leadership. And he reached out and was, like: I need help in my 
24 district. You know, I am getting hammered, blah, blah, blah. 
25 So we actually went back to the district and did one or two events with him.  54 
1 And, I mean, I just stayed in touch with him. And, you know, we have worked together 
2 periodically. 
3 Then the --in the spring of 2019, North Carolina 3, Walter Jones passed away 
4 and --the Congressman there. And there was a special election. And I went up and 
5 supported --endorsed and supported Greg Murphy, and Mark was part of that race to 
6 support him and whatnot. So we did events together. So, I mean, I have stayed in 
7 contact with him and have always had a good relationship with him. 
8 
9 Q And so enough that you could text him and call him by his first name. 
And, when you reached out in November 13th and asked him, you referenced 
10 saying that you saw a tweet from the President, and it was blowing up your phone. So 
11 the President sent out a tweet just referencing your rally the next day? 
12 A -I honestly don't know. 
13 Q Okay. It seems that way from the text. But, if you don't remember, you 
14 don't remember. 
15 But you were definitely checking in to see, hey, is there a chance that he might 
16 come by tomorrow? 
17 
18 A 
Q Right. 
Okay. And so, when he did drive by, that just came as a complete shock in 
19 November because you didn't know that he'd actually show up? 
20 
21 A 
Q Right. 
All right. And then, following on, you know, it is kind of similar, you know, 
22 you exchange a few text messages with him over the next few weeks. But one of them, 
23 on November 23rd, you texted him to say: People are losing faith and hope. There is a 
24 vacuum because of no information. People need to hear from the President. I'm 
25 trying to rally the troops, but when people like me start losing hope, it's not good.  1 
2 What was going on then? And why are you expressing that to Mr. Meadows? 
A Well, I mean, number one, he's --I would consider him a friend. And we 55 
3 have been in the trenches before together. I don't remember specifically, like, what was 
4 going on at the time, but I can tell you that there was a lot of frustration, as I said to you 
5 earlier, that the PACs that had all the money the RNC. I mean, nobody was doing 
6 anything. And so here the grassroots are kind of out there. 
7 And, I mean, yes, Mark Meadows is my friend, and he's chief of staff, but it is not 
8 like we had somebody, you know, on the campaign or whatever to know, like, what their 
9 strategy was or what was going on. I mean, we knew that the election had been stolen. 
10 But, like, nobody knew what was going on. It seemed like there was, I don't know, 
11 chaos, if anything. And so people were frustrated. And so that is why I reached out to 
12 him, you know, to see --I mean, I think there was a couple days, and I may be wrong, but 
13 it seems like there were a couple of days where POTUS didn't tweet maybe. And, you 
14 know, people wanted to hear from him. I think that that might have been it. But other 
15 than that, I can't recall anything. 
16 Q Yeah. So that makes sense. And you do say people need to hear from the 
17 President. I mean, what was the, you know, the importance of hearing from him 
18 directly? He certainly had a lot of surrogates out there saying a lot of different things, 
19 but in terms of words coming from the President himself, why did that matter? 
20 A I mean- it is because you want to hear it straight from him. Right? 
21 mean, because when he talks, you know what he's thinking; you know what he's feeling. 
22 It is completely different than having a surrogate out there. I mean, yes, he did have 
23 surrogates. And that was great. But people wanted to hear from him. 
24 Q And, on that point, December 12th, so it looks like --on the day of your 
25 second rally in D.C. but after, you write to Mr. Meadows, you know: Thank you for the  56 
1 flyover! POTUS made the people so happy today!!!! Truly, what a blessing. God 
2 bless you and thank you! 
3 And he responds: That is what friends are for. It was the best I could arrange. 
4 I was waving the entire time. 
5 So kind of consistent with that the impact that the President had on the people 
6 there and their experience of the event? 
7 A Yes. I mean, it was --it really was fantastic, it was amazing. And I believe 
8 he, like, went around twice. I think that they did a flyover, and then they circled back 
9 around and went around again. So, I mean, the people were thrilled because it is 
10 acknowledging that they are there, and he knows that they have come all this way to 
11 Washington, D.C., to support him, and he's acknowledging that he knows that. 
12 
13 
14 Q Yeah. And it seems like people resonate to what he says pretty strongly. 
A Yeah. 
Q In terms of the talking to Mr. Meadows, again going back to this Rolling 
15 Stone article --and we will look at another one --but this notion of using burner phones 
16 to talk to the White House --and Mr. Meadows in particular. If we look at exhibit 11, 
17 this is --you know, we have your phone records, and what we did is we pulled out 
18 between November and end of January 2021 the calls that you had with Mr. Meadows, 
19 and we only found three. And they were three calls that you placed, and they were 
20 respectively November 23rd, 2020; December 10th, 2020; and December 11th, 2020. 
21 And it looks like the first one might have just gone to voicemail, given the length. But, 
22 you know, do you recall that you probably only spoke to Mr. Meadows just a handful of 
23 times in, you know, November and December like these show? 
24 A Yeah. I mean, I know why I spoke to him in December because, if you recall 
25 me saying that November 14th, after our rally, antifa came to the hotel and was attacking  57 
1 the hotel. And we were held hostage in our hotel that evening. And so we didn't have 
2 buses on November 14th, but we had two buses on December --December 12th. And 
3 so it is hard to find a place to park a bus that is that large. Everybody kept saying Union 
4 Station, but they wouldn't fit at Union Station. So somebody suggested to reach out to 
5 the White House and see if we could park at the Ellipse. And so that is why I was 
6 reaching out to him to see if we could park it at the Ellipse just for security reasons 
7 because last time antifa had attacked the hotel, and I didn't want them attacking the 
8 buses. And he said: You know, there is just no way we can do that. I can't do that. 
9 So that was it. And then I think I asked him, too, what about us pulling the bus in 
10 and having POTUS come out and take a picture with the March for Trump team and the 
11 bus. And that --we couldn't do that either. 
12 Q Did you also discuss whether the President might come to your event? You 
13 didn't text him beforehand asking him, but just afterwards to say, you know, the flyover 
14 was great. And he said: That is what friends are for. 
15 Did that come up beforehand when you talked to him on the phone? 
16 A I honestly don't remember. I am sure, you know, I said, we would love to 
17 have him there. I don't remember. I know that he was going to the Army-Navy game, 
18 but my priority at that point was making sure the buses were safe. 
19 Q Okay. 
20 A I know how --I know logistically what a nightmare it is for the President to 
21 come to an event like that. Right? And so I would ask, but I knew that it was not likely. 
22 Mr. Warrington. -I would like to point out, with the last two exhibits, phone 
23 numbers and emails are sort of out there --
24 - Sure. This is Mr. Meadow's phone numbers, but I appreciate the 
25 point that it is listed on there.  58 
1 Mr. Warrington. Ms. Kremer's phone number is also in the prior exhibit. 
2 - And the prior --I see what you are saying. Yes, absolutely. We 
3 will take care of that. 
4 BY 
5 Q And so, if we look back then when the President tweeted about January 
6 6th --it is in exhibit 12 on page 5, that "be there, will be wild" tweet --did you have any 
7 idea he was going to send that out, any forewarning? Did anybody tell you? 
What day did he send that out? 8 
9 A 
Q December 19th. So, before Caroline Wren comes in the picture, this is just 
10 on his own --it appears to be the President on his own. 
11 A No. I mean, no. I didn't know that he was going to send that out. 
12 mean, until we started --until Justin Caporale reached out to me --I think it was the day 
13 after Christmas --and asked if --about my connecting with Caroline and possibly moving 
14 the event to the Ellipse, I mean, we were just doing an event January 6th at Freedom 
15 Plaza, just like we did in November and December. And, I mean, I had no idea, you 
16 know, what the President was planning or doing at that point. 
17 Q And, to that point, I am going to flip back really quick to text messages with 
18 Mr. Meadows. It's exhibit 3. And the very last one is, on December 19th, 2020, at 2 
19 p.m., so in the afternoon after of the tweet, you send Mr. Meadows a link to a tweet that 
20 you had put up. Okay? If we zoom in, I will show you. You can see Amy Kremer. 
21 Keep going. Maybe one more. So there you sent him a link to your tweet. And then 
22 we got the tweet on page 6 of exhibit 12. We can then show that. 
23 Okay. If you can go down to the bottom, you can see the time is 1:57 p.m., on 
24 December 19th. So it looks like you send Mr. Meadows a link to this tweet just a couple 
25 minutes later. And it just says: We have been marching and fighting for the  59 
1 President's Twitter account you link to since the beginning. The #marchfortrump will be 
2 back in D.C. on January 6th to Stop the Steal and fight for Trump and our Nation. 
3 So, just consistent with what you're saying, coming back, like, in November and 
4 December, to do the same type of event. Is that fair, by this point? 
5 
6 A 
Q Yeah, that is exactly what we were doing. 
Because when President Trump tweeted, if we go back to up to page 5, he 
7 didn't say what protest or where. He just said: Big protest in D.C. on January 6. Be 
8 there, will be wild. 
9 So, again, I guess at that time you wouldn't have known who he was referring to, 
10 or did you? 
11 A I mean, honestly, I had --I mean, I don't know. You know, we didn't know 
12 who he was referring to. But I am sure I probably sent that to Meadows to say: Hey, 
13 we are going to be there. 
14 
15 
16 Q 
A 
Q Right. 
You know, just to make sure that they knew. 
And the comment he says in the last sentence of that tweet, "be there, will 
17 be wild!"; do you ever remember seeing that word that he used "wild" and thinking, what 
18 does he mean? Did you have any idea what he meant by that to you --to you? 
19 A I mean, I had no idea what he meant, but I was thinking that, you know, that 
20 there were probably going to be two or three times the number of people that had been 
21 there in November and December, and those crowds kept growing. And, I mean, when I 
22 thought --when I think of "wild," that is what I think of, but I have no idea what he 
23 meant. 
24 Q And why did you think that the crowds were going to be so much bigger on 
25 January 6th as opposed to, say, the December or the November events?  60 
1 A Well, number one, the significance of certifying the electoral college, and we 
2 wanted them to contest it. I mean, that was like --that was like the --I don't know how 
3 to say it, like, that was our last hope. You know? I guess that is the way to say it. 
4 And the significance of that day. And also because of the time from our last event, on 
5 December 12th to January 6th, there was more time, you know, between those two 
6 events, and it was Christmas, and people weren't working and whatnot. So I figured 
7 that it gave us more time to get the word out. People would be paying attention. And 
8 then, you know, the significance of the electoral college. And I just --I mean, the crowd 
9 grew from November to December. I mean, the one thing we kept hearing is --I don't 
10 know how many emails or phone calls we would get: Had I known, I would have been 
11 there. 
12 That is what we kept hearing in November. Same thing in December. So, I 
13 mean, at that point, you had to be living under a rock not to have seen that we were 
14 holding these rallies across the country and in D.C.  61 
1 
2 [12:07 p.m.] 
3 BY 
4 Q And the thought in doing it --the rally like you had in November and 
5 December, at least initial plans, you said, Freedom Plaza, would that also include the 
6 march up to the Supreme Court? 
7 A I mean, yeah, we --I mean, we had --it had been successful the, you know, 
8 the last two times we did it. So, I mean, I don't know that we specifically talked about it. 
9 But, I mean, we just assumed we were doing the same thing. 
10 
11 
12 Q 
A 
Q Now who had been handling your permitting? Had it been Cindy Chafian? 
Cindy, yes. 
Yeah. Yeah. Okay. And so after the President sends this tweet, did you 
13 know what the time on December 19th that Ms. Chafian didn't yet have a permit for 
14 Freedom Plaza on January 6th? Is that something you were aware of? 
15 A So I don't know if you've ever gone through the permitting process, but it 
16 is --it --there's a lot to it. And it's very stressful. And so the way that Cindy --she had 
17 a good relationship with them and I think she worked with this lady, Debra Dees mostly. 
18 But it literally could --we know that it could literally be an hour before the event starts 
19 before you actually get the permit. 
20 But the way that Debra Dees would do it was, you know, she would say you're first 
21 in line or you're second in line. I think that --I think for one of those events, I don't 
22 know which one, but we were second in line. The inaugural committee had the permit. 
23 Maybe it was for January 6th, the inaugural committee had the permit for Freedom Plaza 
24 for January 6th. And we were second in line. Well, they ended up not using it which 
25 park services told us they probably would not use it, and so we would get it. So, yes, we  62 
1 did not have the permit at that time. But we have been told we were probably going to 
2 get it. 
3 
4 
5 Q 
A 
Q I see. Could you --do you know how to spell Ms. Dees' last name? 
I think D-e-e-s. 
Okay. At this time had you reconciled with Ali Alexander and you were 
6 going to work with him on the event on the 6th, or whatever he was doing was separate 
7 from what you were planning? 
8 
9 
10 A 
Q 
A Yeah, no, I mean, to this day we haven't reconciled with Ali. 
Okay. 
He would be --you know, he would be doing her Periscopes or whatever 
11 live, bashing us, just, I mean, just ridiculous. So, no, I mean, it was --we just, you know, 
12 moved on and kept looking forward. 
13 Q You --you've already talked about. We might as well get it to, that things 
14 changed when you get that phone call from Justin Caporale, it sounds like. 
15 A Oh, yeah, so Justin reached out and said we have a mutual friend, Caroline 
16 Wren, and she's been trying to get in touch with you. I think he said, you know, she sent 
17 you direct message on lnstagram or Twitter or whatever. And she wanted to talk to you 
18 to see what you thought about moving the event to the Ellipse and possibly having POTUS 
19 come. 
20 Well, the whole reason Justin was --Justin was involved was because that second 
21 rally on --in December, I reached out to Justin and hired them for jumbotrons because 
22 the crowd had been so big that people couldn't hear. So we had the jumbotrons there. 
23 So Justin reached out to me, because we had worked together on that event. He 
24 reached out about Caroline, and so I honestly can't remember if I called Caroline or if 
25 Kylie called Caroline. I just remember that Kylie was --because we were still at the  63 
1 Trump International in Vegas. And I remember Kylie being on her phone in the 
2 bathroom there that's bigger than my bedroom, talking to Caroline about all the 
3 dynamics of the relationships with everybody and what had happened and what had 
4 transpired. I remember her being on the phone with Caroline about that. 
5 And I don't know that I ever talked to Caroline. I could have but, honestly, it --I 
6 don't --I mean, it was not anything significant if I did. I probably --if I talked to her, I 
7 probably said I'll have Kylie call you. 
8 Q So you --you talked about how Justin referred to mutual friends. Had you 
9 known Ms. Wren prior to this time? 
10 A Yeah, so Caroline went to Auburn. I went to Auburn. I didn't graduate 
11 because I had a baby at 19-1/2. But --and so, she was --she got involved in the early 
12 days of the Tea Party movement and that's how --I think I went and spoke at an event of 
13 hers or something a long time ago. I honestly don't remember. 
14 Q But you'd kept in touch with her over the years, or were you friends or just 
15 friendly? 
16 A No, we were just --I mean, I can't even remember that --I mean, I can't 
17 remember even seeing her anywhere. I mean, you know, I'd see --I'd see her stuff on 
18 social media and probably like it or whatever. But in terms of working together, you 
19 know, hanging out together, that did not --no, I mean, we just knew each other. 
20 Q So based on what you know, you know, whether talking from Ms. Wren or 
21 other --or Kylie or whomever, how did you --how do you understand Caroline Wren 
22 came into the picture on the 6th? What was her role, and what was her function? 
23 A -hold on one second. I'm sorry. My --the high school's calling me. 
24 
25 Q 
A Do you want to take a 5-minute break? 
No, I'm having my husband come get my phone.  1 
2 Will you repeat that question? 
Q Sure. What did you understand --how did Caroline Wren come into the 
3 mix for the event on the 6th? 64 
4 A I mean, she was friends with Justin. And I didn't know that. I mean, I had 
5 no idea. And so, I guess, obviously, you know, Justin had worked with us on the 
6 December event, and he and Caroline must have had conversations about it. And so, he 
7 reached out to me and, I mean, I guess they worked together. I have no --I didn't know 
8 she was one of the fundraisers for the President. I had --I mean, I honestly had no idea 
9 what she does. She's somebody I know, but I don't keep with up with her if that makes 
10 sense. 
11 Q Fair enough. But in terms of the event going from what had been your two 
12 prior events on Freedom Plaza that you guys had done, you know, fully grassroots to then 
13 becoming the event that it does on The Ellipse on January 6th, you know, did --and I'm 
14 not trying to get into your donors otherwise. But we know that Ms. Wren worked with 
15 a woman named Julie Fancelli to provide a lot of money to help fund the event on the 
16 6th. Did you ever know that Ms. Wren was working with a large donor to provide the 
17 funds for the 6th? 
18 A I mean, I had no idea, I mean, who she was working with or what she was 
19 doing. I mean, what we --we were doing an event on the 6th without anybody's help. 
20 I mean, we had done it on --in November and December. And so as far as I was 
21 concerned, and the rest of the team was concerned, we were going to do that event on 
22 January 6th without Caroline Wren, without Justin, you know, without that. 
23 And, quite honestly, it would have been just as great. I mean, it was a big, 
24 beautiful event at the Ellipse. But it was also amazing at Freedom Plaza, too. 
25 So I didn't know who Caroline was working with. I had no idea. I just knew that  65 
1 if there was any chance of POTUS coming, that Secret Service and for security reasons, it 
2 would be safer at the Ellipse. 
3 
4 Q 
A Is this what Justin was telling --telling you? 
I don't remember. I mean, I don't --I don't recall who specifically said that. 
5 But, I mean, it also is, like, common sense, you know. It's more contained. Freedom 
6 Plaza is there in the open, all those buildings and whatnot. So I can definitely see why it 
7 would be a more secure location at The Ellipse. 
8 Q So why did they have to come to you, if you didn't have a permit already for 
9 The Ellipse? And why did --why were Mr. Caporale and Ms. Wren coming to you with 
10 regard to January 6th? Do you know why? 
11 A I mean, I guess we had the permit for Freedom Plaza and we had done the 
12 two events prior, you know, in November and December. And, I mean, just --just 
13 thinking about it, I mean, thinking out loud here and, I mean, I don't know but, thinking 
14 out loud, it would have been kind of rude for them to all of a sudden take over and, when 
15 our organization had been, you know, doing this since November, to just jump in front of 
16 the parade and take over. 
17 So I think that, you know, they just wanted --1 think they probably just wanted to 
18 reach out and see, you know, if we'd be willing to do that and go from there. 
19 Q And did you understand that Ms. Wren helped facilitate, you know, Women 
20 for America First getting some amount of money to pay for the event on the 6th? Did 
21 you ever know that? 
22 A I mean, I knew, yes, because it --because it was a lot more expensive to do 
23 that event at the Ellipse than it was at Freedom Plaza. And so, I don't know if her or 
24 Justin said, you know, at some point, I guess, early on in the conversations that it's going 
25 to be more expensive because we have to put flooring down and the stage will be bigger  66 
1 and so on and so forth. And so I did know that. 
2 Q Okay. And did you yourself ever speak with the person who provided that 
3 money, who actually, you know, donated the money? Do you know who it is, or did you 
4 ever talk to them? 
5 
6 A 
Q No, I've never talked to them. 
Okay. Now Katrina Pierson, and her last name is P-i-e-r-s-o-n, you know, 
7 she ends up playing a role in the planning of the 6th. 
8 But let me start here. How did you know Ms. Pierson, just generally? And then 
9 how does she end up working together with you-all on the event on the 6th? 
10 A So Katrina and I go back to she's --was got involved with the Tea Party 
11 movement in the early days, the Dallas Tea Party. And we've worked together for years. 
12 She ran for Congress. We supported her. And so --and she's a friend of mine. 
13 mean, she is one person that I would say, you know, it's not just politics. She's a friend 
14 of mine, too. 
15 So at some point Caroline, I guess I did talk to Caroline, because I remember 
16 Caroline saying to me do you have a problem if I reach out to Katrina and to see if she will 
17 be --if she'll be the liaison between everybody to try to get this to gel and to get 
18 everybody on the same page. 
19 And I say that because at some point, Caroline --Caroline was not grassroots and 
20 she bit off more than she could chew. She had no idea what she was walking into with 
21 all the different factions and whatnot. And so, I think she got very frustrated. And she 
22 just, you know, said what do you think about Katrina, and I said I think Katrina would be 
23 great. 
24 Q Why is that? I mean, we know the answer. But why, for the record, why 
25 is Katrina the person to turn to, to help with the different people within the grassroots?  67 
1 A Well, I mean, personally I just --Katrina has a level head on her shoulders. 
2 She's going to do what's right. She's not only going to do what's right, you know, for 
3 herself but also for POTUS, other people involved. And she could be trusted. I mean, 
4 she, you know, she understood, because she was --had been with the President since 
5 2016. You know, she understood what went into these events but she's also grassroots. 
6 And so, I mean --I --and she knew most of the people, the Ali Alexander and whatnot, 
7 too. So that was helpful. 
8 Q In fact, had she been a director of coalitions for the reelection campaign? 
9 Did you know that? 
10 A I honestly didn't. I mean --
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 Q You didn't. 
A I don't know. 
Q Okay. Should we take a break or do you --what do you think? 
A Oh, no, I'm good. 
Q You're good. 
A Unless you --
Q Oh, no, no, I'm fine. I just see you rocking back and forth. I just wanted 
18 to make sure. 
19 
20 A I was sitting on my foot, and it was hurting. 
Q Okay. All right. And so what was the --you say Caroline bit off more than 
21 she could chew and there were groups, there were different groups to try to coordinate 
22 with. What was going on from your perspective with all of that? 
23 A Oh, my gosh,_ hold on one second. 
24 
25 Ms. Kremer. James, I --you got to take Carter to lunch. 
Voice. No, I don't.  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 Ms. Kremer. Why? 
Sorry. That's why the high school was calling me. Oh, my gosh. 
Voice. No, that's not why they were calling you. 
Ms. Kremer. All right. Can we take a 5-minute break? 
- We sure can. So we'll go off the record at 12:21. We'll come 
6 back at 12:25 or so. When you're ready, just come back on camera. 
7 
8 
9 Ms. Kremer. Okay. Thank you. 
[Recess.] 
- Let me go back on the record. It's 12:28, and we are back. I'll 68 
10 just say for the record that the comments about James and Carter earlier were just about 
11 Ms. Kremer speaking about a personal matter, which is why we took the break. Now 
12 we're coming back to the questions we were asking. 
13 BY 
14 Q I think we were talking about, you know, what Ms. Pierson had been brought 
15 in by Ms. Wren to handle. From your perspective, Ms. Kremer, what was the situation 
16 with that that required kind of that liaison, or that coordinator, Katrina? What was 
17 going on with the different groups? 
18 A So the day after Christmas, Cindy had been --Cindy had been with us on the 
19 first bus tour because --I mean, it's kind of a long story, but I think it's important. 
20 
21 Cindy had like, 4 or 5 years ago. And so she has a 
And she had always said she liked being in the background. 
22 She didn't want to be, you know, front and center or whatever. And so I did not want 
23 her going on the bus. She said she didn't want to go on the bus tour. And I didn't want 
24 her going on the bus tour, number one, because of her, you know, 
25 and if something happened to her, I would feel guilty and also because of COVID.  69 
1 mean, we were doing this in the middle of COVID. 
2 So, but unfortunate! And so when we launched the bus tour, 
3 Kylie couldn't go. And I needed Cindy to go with me. And so she was a tremendous 
4 help. I mean, just I liked working with Cindy because she's an A type personality. 
5 mean, I'm a social butterfly. I'm all over the place. And, I mean, she gets crap done. 
6 And so we worked really well together for that reason. 
7 But she's also very controlling, and she rubs a lot of people the wrong way. And 
8 so by the end of that first bus tour, Jennifer, our board member, and Kylie said if Cindy is 
9 on the next bus, we're not going. We're resigning from the board. And so I was trying 
10 to figure out how to make it all work for everybody and balance it. 
11 And so, Cindy wanted to be on the next bus tour and, because she had rubbed 
12 everybody the wrong way and upset everybody, I knew that that wasn't going to work. 
13 And also, I felt like we needed her in D.C., working on the January 6th event. So she got 
14 really upset with Kylie and I, with me, because I wouldn't tell her what was going on, you 
15 know, in terms of when she was coming to California. Christmas was in the middle 
16 there. 
17 And so, I wouldn't tell her, and she got very frustrated. And next thing you 
18 know, we get a call the day after Christmas from Jonathan Williams, who's our 
19 photographer. And he said, Are you still doing the event on January 6th at Freedom 
20 Plaza? And I said --or Kylie, one of us said, Yeah, why? And he said because I just got 
21 a called from Cindy that she's doing an event on January 6th at Freedom Plaza and she 
22 wanted to hire me. And Kylie and I were, like, Oh, gosh. 
23 So Cindy had reached out to the park service, told the park service that the permit 
24 did not need to be --should not be in the name of Women for America First and it needed 
25 to be in her personal name.  70 
1 And Kylie was able to log into her Women for America First email and see these 
2 communications with the park service. So basically, she hijacked the permit. And it 
3 was a holiday weekend. And so we couldn't get park service, and so here she is. She 
4 has the permit and she's putting together this event, and we're hanging out in the wind. 
5 Anyhow, there obviously was a breakdown with Cindy at that point. I don't 
6 know how Alex Jones got involved and then, you know, of course, with Ali and his 
7 craziness. And so Katrina came in to try to smooth those waters over and try to get as 
8 much as possible to get everybody on the same page, because it was a day that we should 
9 all --I mean, we're all there for the same reason. You know, put your differences aside, 
10 whatever. And because we had all been working over, you know, the period of the last 
11 2 months, you don't want to cut anybody out either. 
12 I mean --so, but Caroline, I think, didn't understand all the factions and everything 
13 that had gone on. I think she thought she could smooth everything over, and there was 
14 no way it was going to be smoothed over. So Katrina was the one that got that job. 
15 Q And, you know, on that point, we're going to turn to another article. It's 
16 exhibit 15. This is, if you remember, it's a ProPublica article from June of 2021. 
17 A Yes. 
18 Q Flash that up here in a second. 
19 And if we go to page 2, and towards the bottom, with the paragraph that starts 
20 "rally organizers," you know, all of this --I think you've had a chance to review because, I 
21 sent this to Mr. Warrington last night. But you tell me if you December agree that a 
22 thrust of the big part of this article is that there was concern amongst, you know, Dustin 
23 Stockton, Jennifer Lawrence, and yourself about the, you know, Ali Alexander 
24 orchestrating a march from the Ellipse to the Capitol and that these --and the potential 
25 risks or security concerns and that these --and that you reached out to Mark Meadows to  71 
1 discuss this at the White House, and that's what, I think, Dustin and Jennifer are saying in 
2 this article. 
3 Is that roughly right about what the article is trying to convey here? 
4 
5 A 
Q Well, that's what the article is trying to convey, but it's wrong. 
Yeah, okay. Let me --I want to get your perspective. That's why I'm just 
6 framing it. So if we can move down to the third page, because this second page 
7 introduced --if we go to page 3 and then we --okay. And if we stop right there, if we 
8 look at the third full paragraph, I'm going to read that and the next one and then get your 
9 reaction. 
10 It says: "Kremer denied that she ever spoke with Meadows or any other White 
11 House official about her January 6th concerns." 
12 
13 Let me stop right there. Did you have any January 6th concerns? 
A My concern was that Ali and his team, whoever, Alex Jones, whatever, was 
14 putting out that they were going to march from the Ellipse to the Capitol. And the 
15 reason I was concerned about that was because park services told us that if we put out 
16 we were marching anywhere, that they would pull our permit. Well, when you're about 
17 to have an event with the President of the United States, the last thing you want is to 
18 have that permit pulled. 
19 And so, that's what I was concerned about, because we were not putting out that 
20 we were marching. He was. But I wasn't sure if they would, you know, credit it to us 
21 or whatever. So that's what I was concerned about. I never had a concern about any 
22 violence, never. 
23 Q Did park service explain to you? Were you dealing with the park service 
24 directly, or was that with Kylie and others? 
25 A So, first, it was Cindy. And then when they gave the permit back, it was --I  72 
1 think I had to get on that first call because I was the one that got the permit back. I had 
2 to send, you know, copies of text message and, you know, stuff to prove that Cindy was 
3 working for us. And they gave it back to us. 
4 But then I think after that call, Kylie took over. And Kylie and Jennifer were the 
5 ones that were handling it. Kylie actually got off the bus and flew to D.C. because she 
6 needed to be there to work on January 6th. 
7 Q That first phone call that you were on, is that when the park service raised 
8 the issue of a march and potentially pulling a permit? Or is that something you heard 
9 from Kylie or Jennifer that they relayed to you from later calls? 
10 A You know what? I honestly don't remember. I honestly --I don't 
11 remember. I don't remember when we were told we couldn't march. 
12 Q Now but back to this article, it says that you deny that you ever spoke with 
13 Meadows or any other White House official. And I'll just ask. Did you ever speak to 
14 Mr. Meadows yourself about the January 6th event before it happened? 
15 A No, not that I recall. The only time I talked to Mark was in November and 
16 December --I don't even know if I talked to him in November --but in December about 
17 the things that we've already discussed. So --
18 Q All right. So did you talk to any other White House official that you can 
19 think of before the event on January 6th occurred about the event? 
20 A So I talked to Katrina about it, because Katrina was the one that was --I 
21 don't know exactly how she --I mean, I don't know exactly what she was. I mean, she 
22 was the one --I mean, I don't know if you say representing the White House or, you 
23 know, the liaison with the White House. 
24 But she was --she wasn't part of the administration obviously, but she was my 
25 go-to girl for the White House. So if I needed something, you know, with the White  73 
1 House, I would go to Katrina. And never in 1 million years did I ever, you know, would I 
2 ever think she wouldn't handle something. I knew she would. So --and, quite 
3 honestly, she had the same concerns we had. 
4 Q So it continues on, that article. It says --it says, it's quoting you, that, "Also 
5 no one on my team was talking to them" --that's you know, Meadows or the other White 
6 House officials --"that I was aware of." 
7 And so there, I think we're going to get to that. We know that Katrina talks 
8 to --actually meets with the President in the White House. But when you say no one on 
9 my team, you're referring to Women for America First? 
10 
11 A 
Q Yes. 
Okay. All right. And continue on in the article, the next paragraph is: A 
12 December 27th text from Kremer obtained by ProPublica casts doubt on her assertion. 
13 Written at a time when her group was pressing to control the upcoming Jan. 6 rally, it 
14 refers to Alexander --that's Ali Alexander --and Cindy Chafian, an activist who worked 
15 closely with Alex Jones. 
16 And it quotes her text message: "WH," or "White House and Team Trump are 
17 aware of the situation with Ali and Cindy," Kremer wrote. "I need to be the one to 
18 handle both." Kremer did not answer questions from ProPublica about the text. 
19 And so, you know, we have the texts --you know, you produced the texts. We 
20 just want to go to that and get your perspective on it. It's exhibit 4, and it's page 3. So 
21 if we see there --and this is a text chain between --or, rather, Kylie produced this and it's 
22 got you and Dustin Stockton on it. If you see on December 27th at 11:28 p.m., you text 
23 both of them. 
24 "Guys, please do not discuss Ali or Cindy with anyone, including with Pastor 
25 Gibson. Now that the 6th is becoming bigger than expected and some people at the  74 
1 highest levels of government might appear, we have a very delicate situation. I'm going 
2 to mention it to Pastor Gibson tonight and let him know if anyone reaches out to him 
3 again, please let me know. The WH and team Trump are aware of the situation with Ali 
4 and Cindy. I need to be the one to handle both. I know we are all passionate about it, 
5 but I hope you both understand." 
6 So this is the text that someone shared with ProPublica but that you sent. Does 
7 that seem right? 
8 A Yeah, that --I mean, I wrote that. 
9 Q Right. So let's just walk through it, or just the part where it says in the 
10 second --or from the start. Why did you not want Dustin or Kylie talking to Ali or Cindy? 
11 What did that mean? 
12 A I mean, basically there were times where it was like we had too many cooks 
13 in the kitchen. And if we're dealing with the White House, I need to be the one to do 
14 that. I certainly didn't want Dustin, and I just thought we needed to be consistent. I'm 
15 the one, you know, it's like one of those articles says that Kylie was going to meet Mark 
16 Meadows at the White House. That never happened. She would never do that, 
17 because Mark--I am the one that has the relationship with Mark Meadows. 
18 And so, I didn't worry so much about Kylie but about Dustin. There was --there 
19 was a lot of anxiety and just stress on the bus because whatever was going --because we 
20 weren't part of the planning for January 6th. I mean, Kylie's in Washington, doing that 
21 with Jennifer and Caroline Wren or whoever's there. And basically we were clueless 
22 about what was going on. We had no idea. 
23 And so, you know, at some point we were told that none of us were going to be 
24 able to speak. Well, that pissed Dustin off. I mean, he got so angry. And to this day, 
25 he's angry. One of my security guys said he was pissed at the 6th before the event ever  75 
1 started, because he was not speaking at that event. But he was trying to exert more 
2 control and then, you know, we got the permit for the Ellipse, but we still had the permit 
3 for Freedom Plaza and they wanted us to relinquish it. 
4 I mean, it was just a lot of drama. Nobody knew --and everybody was talking. 
5 Like Pastor Gibson would be talking to Matt Couch who had talked to Cindy. I mean, it 
6 was just it was a lot of craziness. And I just felt like there were too many cooks in the 
7 kitchen, and we needed to simplify things. 
8 Q All right. And so but keeping particular to Ali and Cindy when you say 
9 "please don't discuss," is that about a concern of safety at the Capitol and what Ali 
10 Alexander's going do? Or this is about the permitting business and the dynamics 
11 amongst the group? 
12 A Yeah, it's the dynamics that's the drama, I mean, just the, you know, the 
13 drama that comes with Ali, and then when Cindy had pulled her crap, you know, trying to 
14 hijack the permit and, you know, now she's working with Alex Jones and whatnot. It 
15 was just, I mean, that's what it was about. I never --I mean, I'll tell you. I never 
16 thought anything about violence ever, not one time at any point during that whole thing. 
17 Q And when you --and you say in that second sentence, you end it by saying 
18 we have a very delicate situation, referring to some people at the highest levels of 
19 government might appear. I imagine you're referring to the possibility that President 
20 Trump would speak at the event? 
21 A 
22 telling them. 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A 
Q Right. I mean, I was trying to tell them he's probably coming without 
All right. And keep it professional? 
Right. Because I wasn't authorized to tell anybody at that point. 
Okay.  76 
1 A And besides, you know, if I tell one person on that bus, it's going to be all 
2 over, you know, the country in 10 minutes. 
3 Q And you say, though, a couple of lines down, again, the part that ProPublica 
4 cites to is the WH, or the "White House and Team Trump are aware of the situation with 
5 Ali and Cindy." 
6 
7 mean? 
8 
9 Who are you referring to as the White House and Team Trump? What did that 
A 
Q Katrina. 
Did you understand Caroline Wren to be holding herself out as having some 
10 role, you know, or connection with the administration, the White House or the Trumps? 
11 A No. I mean, Caroline was a fund raiser. Other than that, I mean, she had 
12 no authority to do anything. Katrina was the one. 
13 Q So along the lines of, you know, the, you know, who was going to speak and 
14 how that continued to cause friction, if we look in exhibit 2, I think we're still in there. 
15 No, that's exhibit 4. Let's pull up exhibit 2. It's your texts with Kylie. And if we look 
16 at page 68, so this is, just kind of ground you for a second, if we go to the bottom of that 
17 page 68, you'll see that the time stamp --I just want to focus you on that. It's December 
18 28th but at 3:09 in the morning. So I gather you all are still out on the West Coast or in 
19 the West. So maybe you're not really up at 3:00 in the morning, you know, maybe 1:00 
20 or 12:00. But this is right after you had --this is the same evening that you just texted to 
21 Dustin and Kylie about not discussing the Ali and Cindy situation. 
22 And so I'll just read up this page. Starting at 3:10 a.m., Kylie texts to you: Who 
23 called you about those people? 
24 
25 And you respond: Katrina. Two times. 
And so, what are you referring to there about Katrina calling you about those  1 people? Was that about Ali and Cindy and the situation you had texted them about? 
2 Do you know? 
3 
4 
5 
6 A 
Q 
A 
Q I honestly don't know, but, as I'm reading up, that thing about Scavino. 
Right. 
So it --
Let me read that then. Maybe that's what it is. Let me go up. 
7 A It's jogging my memory here. 
8 Q Yes. 
9 A I think what the situation was, was I think POTUS re-tweeted Ali about 
10 something. I don't remember what it was, but he re-tweeted Ali. And did it say 
11 something about --I don't --I mean, I just remember he re-tweeted Ali and then I guess 
12 Dan did that and they quickly undid it. 77 
13 But for some reason we were upset about it and I can't --I mean, Ali was trying to 
14 hijack everything we were doing. 
15 Q So there's a lot there but let me read the text messages and then we'll walk 
16 through it. 
17 But so you say that Katrina called you two times and then Kylie continues to go on. 
18 She says: That she wants people to tweet. 
19 
20 And she clarifies in the next message: Speak. 
And then you say: No, that she doesn't want Scavino taking over because then 
21 Brandon Straka, Ali, and all the people that have come after us will be on our stage. She 
22 said --and you put in all caps --do not let the White House take over our event. 
23 And Kylie says: They won't be. 
24 
25 And you respond: And if Scavino gets involved, they will. 
So focusing first on Dan Scavino, do you know Mr. Scavino?  78 
I've met him a couple of times, but I don't know him personally. 1 
2 A 
Q Okay. And this, you just recognized how you thought that Mr. Scavino had 
3 re-tweeted Ali. Do you mean to say that you thought it was re-tweeted from the 
4 President's account and it was quickly taken down? 
5 
6 A 
Q Yes. 
Okay. And how would you know whether Mr. Scavino was the one who 
7 tweeted that out or not? 
8 A Maybe Katrina told me? Somebody said it was probably Dan. And the 
9 reason --so this is --this is --this is where --so Ali was --remember when they 
10 brought --when the President did that social media thing at the White House and 
11 brought in a bunch of influencers? Ali was there. I don't know if Brandon Straka was 
12 there. But Ali had a --had a relationship with Dan. And Dan, I think, was his actual 
13 contact at the White House. 
14 Well, at that point I was more concerned. I mean, I knew what we were doing, 
15 what we had always, you know, had planned. And what I was concerned about is, again, 
16 Ali hijacking. So you reach out to Scavino. Ali reaches out to Scavino and tells him 
17 what's going on or whatever. That doesn't mean the President's on board and the 
18 team's on board or whatnot. And Scavino may go, you know, retweet that from the 
19 President's account. 
20 I just was concerned that there were two different lanes there: One, Scavino 
21 being the White House contact, and then our lane with Katrina and, you know, us working 
22 to put this event together. And it --there was a lot of confusion and I didn't --we didn't 
23 need that. 
24 
25 Q 
A Uh-huh. 
Does that make sense?  79 
1 Q Sure. Sure. And what was Katrina's plan, if she had one at that time, to 
2 make sure that or to try to make sure that Women for America First continued to be the 
3 one controlling the event and not have Ali and Dan Scavino take it over? What did she 
4 say about that? 
5 A You know, I can't --she --Katrina knew that we were, you know, had had 
6 these problems with Ali and Alex Jones and I'm sure she knew about Cindy at that point. 
7 And I mean, Katrina knows --she knows me personally and she knows that, you know, if I 
8 say I'm going to do something, I do it and that, you know, she trusted me. 
9 And so, I think there --she never said it, but I think she wanted to protect us, you 
10 know, and make sure that we were given the credit and got the proper billing, so to say, 
11 or so to speak, for doing that event, because we've all been in situations where, you 
12 know, somebody will come in and jump in front of the parade, and they haven't been 
13 there the whole time. They jump in front of the parade and take the credit. 
14 I think she wanted to make sure that that did not happen. And she was aware 
15 of, you know, some of the shenanigans that Ali had pulled. I --as to what her plan was 
16 to, I can't speak to that. 
17 Q Okay. Just continuing on with that, with the text message chain, if we go to 
18 page 64, so still the same day, December 28th but it's now, you know, in the morning. 
19 And we --right there at 11:20 --excuse me --11:36 a.m., if you can see, and we'll zoom in. 
20 You say to Kylie: As far as Ali and D.C., everything needs to go through you or I. 
21 The White House is involved in January 6th, and that has to be kept --I think you meant 
22 to write "confidential." 
23 But, again, and then you clarify confidential above. 
24 So, again, what are you conveying there about why it needs to be confidential? 
25 A So because of --because of the thing with Cindy taking the permit, hijacking  80 
1 the permit, and then, you know, we're going to go to the Ellipse, I don't know if at that 
2 point we had put in for the Ellipse or not. 
3 But basically there came a point where Dustin wanted to take over, and Dustin 
4 was kind of doing his own thing that I was not even aware of. He was negotiating all this 
5 crap. And it was, like, whoa, hold on, Dustin. You know, we all need to be on the same 
6 page. And so what I was talking about there is that Dustin was part of the March for 
7 Trump team, but Dustin did not represent, and was not part of Women for America First. 
8 And at the end of the day, this was all Women for America First. 
9 So Kylie and I needed to be the ones that, you know, represented Women for 
10 America First, and made sure that, you know, for our own sake, our names, and the 
11 organization, that everything was done right. I didn't want Dustin going and making 
12 some deal with somebody about, you know, whatever. I mean, it just --I was trying to 
13 keep --get some cooks out of the kitchen, if that makes sense. 
14 Q Sure. Sure. And you had not yet put the permit in for the Ellipse. That 
15 was the next day, because this is the Sunday, the 28th. 
16 So I imagine what you're saying is we've got to keep it confidential so we can be 
17 the ones that get to the permit for the place where it's going to be held, and then we're in 
18 control, it sounds like. 
19 
20 A 
Q That sounds about right. 
So if I --I just have a --it's a tangential question but it comes on the same 
21 day. So we flip to exhibit --stay there and go to page 63. So we're moving up in time. 
22 If we go to near the top of the page at 2:40 p.m., if you go down one more, there we go, 
23 you ask to Kylie: I need Kelli Ward's phone number with the AZ GOP. 
24 
25 And you say: Who would have that? 
Do you know why you were trying to get in touch with Ms. Ward at that time?  81 
1 A Yeah, because I wanted to see if the Arizona GOP would help turn people out 
2 at our events in Arizona. 
3 
4 Q 
A Did you end up working with Ms. Ward to do that? 
Actually, no. And I can't remember what she had going on. But also, 
5 Dustin and Jen had a falling out with Kelli Ward a couple of years ago, and I guess it was 
6 really, really nasty. And so I think Kelli Ward probably did not --I mean, she said --I 
7 can't remember what she said. She had some event or something. But, honestly, she 
8 probably didn't want to come because of Dustin and Jen were part of it. 
9 Q Understood. Okay. Well, then going back to what we were talking about, 
10 if we can go to page 56 on the same exhibit, and this is just going to be the next --go 
11 down. It's the same --it's the next day, December 29th. And at 8:32 p.m., right there, 
12 you see you text to Kylie, you know, similar. 
13 "I'm really afraid we are being played. I'm extremely concerned about us being 
14 played by Caroline and Scavino. Why are they working with Cindy or Ali? I don't want 
15 anything to do with either of them, nothing." 
16 So do you remember why on this day you still continue to be concerned about 
17 being played? Had something happened, or it's just a continuation from the day 
18 before? 
19 A I --I can't remember what it was specifically. But I remember saying to 
20 Kylie and maybe even Katrina at some point it sure seems like Caroline is working for Ali 
21 and Alex Jones, like, she was being their advocate or whatever. 
22 And then Cindy was just, I mean, Cindy was just being Cindy and trying to, you 
23 know, work her way in or whatever. And, again, it goes back to I was afraid that our 
24 event was going to be hijacked because Caroline didn't know all these players. She had 
25 no idea what was going on. And, you know, I was just afraid that she was going to do  82 
1 what one of them wanted her to do, whatever, and we were going to lose, I mean, we 
2 would no longer be able to host the event. 
3 Q And when you say Caroline was almost like an advocate for Ali Alexander 
4 and Alex Jones, what makes you say that? What were the things she was saying, or 
5 what was she doing that gave that you impression? 
6 A You know,_ I can't tell you specifically. But it seems like Kylie had a 
7 phone call with Caroline, and there was some discussion about Ali and Alex Jones. 
8 And Caroline --Kylie said, no, they're not going to speak or whatever. And 
9 Caroline really, like, doubled down for them. And it was just weird. It was, you know, I 
10 mean, here she is. She comes in. She wants to do this event with us. It's a Women 
11 for America First event, but now you're trying to advocate for all these other players. 
12 mean, it was just bizarre. 
13 Q And what was her leverage in those discussions, Caroline's? Was it the fact 
14 that she had the relationship with the donor? Or why did anybody care what she had to 
15 say, other than that? 
16 A I mean, honestly, I don't --I mean, I don't know. I don't know how --I 
17 mean, I knew Caroline was a fundraiser. But she was, I mean, she --she had no idea 
18 what she was doing in terms of the grassroots stuff and putting this event together. 
19 And I --I mean, I'm not saying that to be mean or whatever, but I just --I don't know the 
20 role she played. 
21 I mean, okay, so if you're bringing donors, that's great. Bring the donors. But 
22 let the people putting the event together, continue to put the event together without 
23 trying to --without trying to, you know, take it over or hijack it. 
24 But she was obviously --I don't know if she was being paid by them. I don't 
25 know what it was, but she absolutely had a loyalty to Ali and Alex Jones.  83 
1 Q And how did this all ultimately get sorted out, Ms. Kremer? You know, 
2 know, there was an event that ended up being held on the night of January 5th at 
3 Freedom Plaza and then your event on the 6th. Was that a reflection of how this was 
4 sorted out ultimately? 
5 A So there was the event on the night of the 5th, and Kylie nor I went. 
6 Women for America First were not part of it at all. We had no idea who was speaking 
7 at --on the 6th because it hadn't been given to us yet. I mean, that was --that was, you 
8 know, coming from POTUS, the White House, whoever was putting that together, the 
9 campaign. I don't even know. But it had not been given to us yet, and people were 
10 freaking out about it. 
11 And I want to say, too, when they called us to, you know, see if we wanted to do 
12 this event at the Ellipse on the 6th, I said to everybody on the bus, I got everybody 
13 together, and I said, This is the deal. You know, we got this phone call. They want to, 
14 you know, move it to the Ellipse. There's a possibility POTUS might come. But you all 
15 realize, if we agree to do this, we're going to lose all control of our event. Any time the 
16 President of the event gets involved, you lose all control. And I just want to make sure, 
17 because we're a team, is that okay with everybody? And everybody said, Absolutely, it's 
18 worth it. So we all agreed to do that. 
19 And then what was I saying, 1111 before that? 
20 Q We were just talking about how it got sorted. You were talking about the 
21 event on the 5th. 
22 A So we had no idea who was speaking, I mean, Sebastian Gorka, Diamond and 
23 Silk. Everybody's blowing up our phones wanting to know what time, when they're 
24 speaking, because all these people coming into town because, for us, they're supposed to 
25 be speaking at our event. And we had no idea who was speaking. We did not get the  84 
1 list of who was speaking to, like, 11:00 o'clock or midnight the night before. And it came 
2 from POTUS. POTUS was the one that decided who was speaking. And Kylie opened it 
3 up, and then I was speaking and then I think the family. There were very few people on 
4 there. 
5 And when the list came, I started to cry. And I said I'm not going to speak. 
6 cannot --these people, you know, have been with us the whole time. We've been a 
7 team. I'm not going to go to the big dance and then they can't be on the stage. If they 
8 can't be, I'm not going to be either. And Katrina said, if the President of the United 
9 States says you're going to speak, you're going to speak. So --
10 Q Were you --just so we stop right there, were you shedding tears because Ali 
11 Alexander and Alex Jones couldn't speak on the 6th? 
12 
13 
14 A Oh, no, I didn't care about them. 
Q Okay. 
A But, you know, Dustin and David Harris, Jr., and Sebastian Gorka and, you 
15 know, the people, Mike Lindell, the people that had supported us from the very first rally 
16 in D.C., the second, you know, those are the people that I was concerned about. 
17 Q Okay. And, but did you understand that Ali and Alex Jones were effectively 
18 given, you know --they were told they could speak the night of the 5th at the Freedom 
19 Plaza but not the 6th at the Ellipse? 
20 
21 
22 A I mean, eventually I knew that. 
Q Okay. 
A But you also gave --one of the articles you gave Dave is an article, a Breitbart 
23 article that talks about them speaking on the 6th and --
24 Q So that goes to my next point, yeah, yeah. I mean, you can continue on. 
25 But we can pull it up to look at it.  85 
1 A So when that article was published, I think Katrina called Matt Boyle and said 
2 it was wrong. I called Matt Boyle. I don't know. Everybody I know --I think Chris 
3 Barrett, everybody called, was calling Matt Boyle and saying it's wrong. Take it down. 
4 And he refused to take it down. He said it came from the White House. Well, it came 
5 from Caroline. That's where it came from. 
6 And I didn't know --I mean, I didn't know Caroline was holding herself out as 
7 representing the White House or whatnot. But, I mean, it ended up being wrong. 
8 They weren't speaking. They absolutely were not speaking, but he never took it down. 
9 Q And if we can, we'll just look at it briefly so we can kind of situate ourselves 
10 on timing. It's exhibit 14. And you recognize that the article by Mr. Boyle. 
11 It says: President Trump to Address Stop the Steal Protesters on White House 
12 Lawn on January 6th. 
13 And if you go down, it's published on January 3rd in the evening. So this is the 
14 article we're talking about, right? 
15 
16 A 
Q Right. 
Okay. If we look at page 2, to that point, we look at the --what is it, the 
17 second full paragraph, it says: 
18 The President is expected to deliver remarks beginning at around 11:00 a.m. he 
19 will cap off an event at which several other high-profile names, including Kimberly 
20 Guilfoyle, Amy Kremer. And continues on and then ends with: And Ali Alexander are 
21 all among those expected to speak, per a source involved in the matter. 
22 And so you understood that source to be Caroline? 
23 A Yeah, eventually, I mean, eventually it was told to me or it was put 
24 together --I mean, it was Caroline. 
25 Q Right. And the first person listed in that was Kimberly Guilfoyle. At that  86 
1 point, did you know that Ms. Wren was working with Ms. Guilfoyle? 
2 A I don't know if I --I don't know at what point I realized that. But I think 
3 the --the way I realized it is Caroline called Kylie or was on the phone with Kylie and 
4 Caroline said, I'm down at Mar-a-Lago, and I'm sitting here with Kimberly and Don Jr. 
5 And she started, I think she started pushing on Kylie about Alex Jones or Ali 
6 speaking. That's what she was pushing about Ali and Alex, and maybe even Roger 
7 Stone. And Kylie said, Absolutely not, that Ali is not speaking and neither is Alex Jones. 
8 And she flipped out and started screaming at Kylie in front of the --in front of 
9 Kimberly and Don Jr., whatever. I mean, it was very contentious. And things went 
10 downhill with Caroline after that. 
11 Q Well, and continuing on down that same page, if we can scroll down, keep 
12 going down a little bit more, so we see the last two paragraphs. There we go. You see 
13 that they provided in the article, in that paragraph, we see that starts with, "The doors for 
14 the White House," and he calls it The Ellipses. But down at the bottom of that 
15 paragraph, it says: 
16 Technically event goers do not need to register or have tickets, but are being 
17 encouraged to RSVP on the website MarchToSaveAmerica.com. Was that your website? 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 A 
Q 
A No, it wasn't. It was Ali's. 
Right. 
I believe. 
Q And then the next paragraph, it says: 
"The official program will begin around 9:00 a.m. and, again, will be capped by 
23 Trump's speech beginning around 11:00 a.m. When the President finishes his remarks, 
24 organizers then will lead a march up to the U.S. Capitol where they are expected to arrive 
25 around 1:00 p.m., The time during which the new Congress, which is being sworn in on  1 Sunday, will consider certification of the electoral college results." 
2 
3 
4 Okay. And there's the concept of the march from the Ellipse to the Capitol. 
Do you remember having a reaction when you saw that? 
A Oh, yeah, I mean, and, again, that's coming from Ali and their team that 
5 they're, you know, that there's going to be a march. I mean, we had no control over 
6 him. Honestly, I don't know how --I mean, I guess park service knew what he was 
7 doing. I think we read about it in maybe that ProPublica piece. 87 
8 But, obviously, they knew what he was doing. They didn't want him, you know. 
9 You know, they knew he wasn't in charge by the grace of God, but I don't --it was put out 
10 so much that we were marching and we weren't. But, I mean, obviously by putting 
11 these speakers there, saying we're marching, putting that website there, you can tell 
12 Caroline was obviously, I mean, advocating for them, working for them, being paid. 
13 don't know what she was doing. But she was on team Ali and Alex Jones. 
14 Q And do you recall after this article is when Katrina went to go meet with 
15 President Trump to sort out who would be speaking at the event? Do you remember 
16 her talking to you about that? 
17 A I mean, I know that she --I know that she went and met with him. And I'm 
18 sure she said something, you know, about it. But I don't --
19 Q Whatever it is, only what you know, but whatever happened, you know she 
20 at least had a meeting with the President and speakers were decided upon? 
21 A Right. And I --and I think she --she had everybody on the list. Like it was 
22 not her job to take anybody off the list. She had everybody on the list. Now, listen, if I 
23 was going in there, I would not have had Ali and Alex Jones. But Katrina put everybody 
24 on there, and then the President decided. 
25 Q And if we look at exhibit 5, and you'll see just at the top, this is a text chain  1 between, you know, from Kylie and with you and with Jennifer and Katrina. And if we 
2 go to page 5 of that exhibit, near the top or --excuse me --to the bottom --okay, there 
3 we go. So on January 4th at 6:22 p.m., so this is the day after the article, and 
4 Ms. Pierson writes to you all: 
5 "Once this is released, please don't discuss any of this with others or engage on 
6 social media. POTUS isn't speaking until he actually steps on the stage. He can and 
7 will step out on the stage and just wave if he decides. So heed that warning." 
8 And did you understand that to be coming on the heels of when Ms. Pierson had 
9 met with the President? 
10 Mr. Warrington. 1111 just to a point of clarification here. 
11 - Oh, Katrina said that. I didn't mean --I didn't mean --yeah. 
12 Mr. Warrington. And also I don't see that Amy's actually on this particular --
13 - Yeah, if you look at the top. 
14 Mr. Warrington. Okay. 
15 
16 phone. 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 Amy is Mommagrizzly. That must be how she shows up in Kylie's 
Mr. Warrington. I just missed that part. 
- No, that's okay. 
Let me go back to page 5. 
BY 
Q All right. But if we continue on, it is Kylie who responds to say, Okay, to 
22 Katrina's message. 
23 
24 
25 And then Katrina clarifies or she says: You know, balcony and wave. 
I guess saying that he could just show up and wave, the President. 
A Right. 88  1 
2 Q And then Kylie asks: Are we going to be shocked by anyone? 
And the --and Katrina responds: No, but the money flows at risk. So don't 
3 push it. Not worth it. 89 
4 And Kylie continues: Okay. Do you have anything I can released on Bannon or 
5 just focus on POTUS? 
6 And you come in to say: Ladies, we will go with what the President says and 
7 wants. We are honored to be a part of this and are thrilled just to be there. If no one 
8 gets to speak, that is absolutely fine. We are there to support POTUS, and it is his day. 
9 So did you understand this to be talking about now the President has weighed in 
10 on the speakers and the list looks a lot smaller?  1 
2 [1:11 p.m.] 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 Ms. Kremer. Yeah. 
Q 
A 
Q BY 
Yeah. 
I must --I had to have. 
Right. And then when Kylie asked Katrina, are we going to be shocked by 
8 anyone --I think on the list --Katrina says: No, but the money flow is at risk so don't 
9 push it. Not worth it. 
10 Do you know what she referring to there about the money flow and not pushing 
11 it? 90 
12 A I honestly have no idea. Unless --I mean, unless Caroline was continuing to 
13 raise money, and she thought maybe some of that money was going to come to us, and 
14 we were being difficult because we wouldn't let Ali and Alex Jones speak. I don't know. 
15 Q All right. Okay. Did it end up causing a problem with Caroline that you 
16 know once she learned that the President had cut down the list and wouldn't let a lot of 
17 people speak? 
18 
19 
20 A 
Q 
A I don't know. I mean, thinking back on it -­
If you know. 
--it was always a problem with Caroline. I mean, it was nonstop problems. 
21 And, you know, I had never worked with her. I didn't know, you know, how she worked, 
22 whatever. But she was --I don't know how else to say it other than she was being a 
23 bully. And it was obvious she was advocating for them for whatever reason, which is 
24 fine. But she was being a bully, and, you know, I think Katrina told me this is what she 
25 does. I mean, she's so used to getting her way. She always gets her way because she's  91 
1 the money girl. So she goes in and bullies everybody, and she holds out to the end, and 
2 they finally give in, and she gets her way because she's bringing in the money. She said 
3 the thing is this time POTUS is calling the shots and she doesn't get to call the shots. So I 
4 mean, I took that to --that, you know, this is what she normally does, when she tries to 
5 get her way. But this time it didn't work. And we were just on the receiving end of her 
6 anger or whatnot. 
7 Q And part of the influence, if we look at exhibit 19, it seems like Caroline 
8 might have been, you know, exerting, if we look at --this is from the Trump march 
9 website. Do you recognize this from the website that you all had up advertising the 
10 Ellipse event? 
11 
12 A 
Q I mean, yeah, it does look vaguely familiar. 
Okay. And you see the bus there and March for Trump. But, you know, 
13 on the website, you see that there was a link for --or a display of coalition partners. 
14 And you are listed first, Women for America First, and My Pillow and Turning Point 
15 Action, but continues going on down to Wild Protest, Tea Party Patriots, and "stop the 
16 steal." Do you know why your website was, you know, listing people like "stop the 
17 steal," and Ali's group, and WildProtest as coalition partners? Is that something you 
18 were comfortable with? 
19 A No. I wasn't comfortable with it, but I had no say in the matter. And I 
20 don't --I can't recall how that --who that conversation was had with --who I had that 
21 conversation with or how it came to be. But, basically, I was told: Pick and choose 
22 your battles, and this is not one of them. Just let it go. 
23 Q And we saw in that Matthew Boyle article, the March to Save America 
24 website --if we stay here on 19, you see there is no mention of marching from the Ellipse, 
25 it is strictly about the event at the Ellipse. Right? If you go down and look at the event  92 
1 details --and we can zoom in. You know, it talks strictly about going to the Ellipse, what 
2 time the doors open, and where to go. 
3 
4 A 
Q Right. 
Is that consistent with your advertising as you remember it? You weren't 
5 advertising a march to the Capitol as part of this event? 
6 
7 A 
Q No. We weren't. I mean, that looks like what we put out. 
Right. But if we look at the March to Save America website in exhibit 18, 
8 and we go down on the left side. We can zoom in for you. As you said, this was Ali's 
9 website. Right there, I will read. It says: Take a stand with President Trump and the 
10 #StopTheSteal coalition and be at the Ellipse (President's Park) at 7 a.m. The fate of our 
11 Nation depends on it. At 1 p.m. we will march to the U.S. Capitol Building to protest 
12 certification of the electoral college. 
13 And so that --there it is, consistent with the article and what you had been talking 
14 about, it is speaking about this event as if it is the Ellipse and then the march up to the 
15 Capitol. Right? 
16 
17 A 
Q Right. 
And, if we look at going back to your text with Kylie, you bring this to her 
18 attention. So exhibit 2, page 25. And right there, if you zoom in on January 3rd, 1:29 
19 a.m. So, even before Matthew Boyle publishes his article, you find that, and you send it 
20 to Kylie. Do you remember who put it on your radar that Ali had put this website up? 
21 A I don't remember who put it on my radar. But my guess is it 
22 probably --somebody saw it on Twitter, and --
23 
24 
25 Q 
A 
Q Yeah. 
And that is where, you know, and brought it to my attention. 
Actually, you just answered it. I should have looked up. Because Kylie  93 
1 asked, where did you see that? And then you go up. That explains it. You link to Jack 
2 Posobiec's Twitter. Does that sound about right? 
3 
4 A 
Q Yeah. That is probably right. 
Okay. For the record, and you can see it there, but the last name is 
5 P-o-s-o-b-i-e-c. 
6 And, if we continue up to page 24, you write -if we can zoom in on that bottom 
7 message at 1:33 a.m. You say: So see, Ali isn't playing by the rules. He is pulling 
8 people from the event on the 6th, which is what they didn't want to happen. I just don't 
9 get it, but I am tired and going to bed. Love you. 
10 And, when you say he is pulling people from the event on the 6th, what did you 
11 mean by that? 
12 A I meant that, you know, it goes back to like when you were talking about 
13 December 12th and Ali had an event at the same time, like a competing event. You 
14 know, when you are doing these events, you want as many people there as you can 
15 possibly get. I mean, there is power in numbers. And why would you go and try and 
16 pull people to wherever you are going to be away from the event at the Ellipse? I mean, 
17 that is what he was trying to do. 
18 Again, it was about Ali, not about, you know, the President, the movement, 
19 whatever. It was about Ali having his own stage, doing whatever the hell he wanted to. 
20 And he pulled people away. I mean, if he was going to do that, he's pulling people to 
21 another location, which means we have less people there at the Ellipse. I mean, we had 
22 plenty of people at the Ellipse, but you get my point. 
23 Q But you say, "which is what they didn't want to happen." Do you know 
24 who "they" is that you are referring to? 
25 A I mean, like Katrina --we had the, you know --that was part of what Katrina  94 
1 was doing. She was trying to corral everybody and get everybody on the same page and 
2 moving in the same direction. They --she, the White House, the campaign, I don't 
3 know. No one wanted there to be multiple events at the same time on that day. 
4 mean, they wanted one large event. 
5 Q Sure. Now if we --if we just think about it, the website I showed you from 
6 March to Save America, you know, it doesn't necessarily say that it is one or the other 
7 because it talks about being at the Ellipse and then at 1 p.m. marching to the U.S. Capitol 
8 Building to protest the certification of the electoral college. But you are reading this as 
9 him just trying to just have a competing event at the same time? 
10 A Yeah. I mean, why --first of all, you don't know when the President is 
11 going to show up. You don't know how long he's going to speak. I mean, he knew 
12 none of that. And you are going to tell people to march to the Capitol at 1 o'clock. 
13 That is, I think, disrespectful. And I think it was, I mean, wrong. 
14 Q So, to your point corralling back on exhibit 2, we will just go back to the 
15 same page we were on, 24. We will get there. Right. So Kylie responds to you: 
16 Right, they have stopped trying to corral them. Now it is just making a distinction to be 
17 very, very separate from them. 
18 Okay. And so is that the posture you all carried through to the 6th, that you 
19 were separate from Ali and his group? 
20 A Yeah. I mean, at some point, you know, everybody realized Ali was going 
21 to do whatever the hell he wanted. He was in this for Ali and not for the bigger purpose. 
22 And so you are wasting your time trying to corral him. 
23 
24 
25 Q 
A 
Q Okay. 
So I guess they stopped trying to get him on the same page. 
Now, understanding the sensitivity with the Park Service and about marching  95 
1 from the Ellipse to the Capitol. I just want to bring you to page 21 of this exhibit. So it 
2 is still with Kylie text messages. And it is going to be toward --at the bottom of page 21 
3 or near it. And, if you zoom in, you see it. If you can zoom in there. January 3rd at 
4 6:38 p.m. you tell Kylie: You don't know this, but we are setting up a stage at SCOTUS 
5 on the 6th. Do not say anything to anyone. 
6 
7 
8 
9 She writes back: Who is? 
And you say: We are. 
And then Kylie says: Katrina and you need to talk. 
And you say: Okay. I will call her. 
10 And, if we continue to page 20 and we go down to about the middle of the page at 
11 8:09 p.m., you see Kyle sends you --yeah, she sends you the link to Boyle's article at 8:09 
12 p.m., Breitbart, "President Trump to Address 'Stop The Steal' Protesters." So that is 
13 when the article comes out. 
14 A Right. 
15 Q And then Kylie says: I want to pull all of our speakers from the 5th and 
16 move them to the 6th at SCOTUS. But I need to confirm we have a stage, so I need you 
17 to call me. She continues --I mean she says that she's had it with these --I'll just say 
18 with these people. 
19 So just a couple of things there. She refers to pulling all our speakers from the 
20 5th. Do you know who she considered to be your speakers from the 5th? Is that like 
21 Dustin, Jennifer, and others? 
22 A It was Dustin, Jen, probably Sebastian Gorka, Mike Lindell, David Harris, Jr., 
23 Boris Epshteyn or Epshteyn. Who else? It was just --it was the people that had been 
24 with us, you know, and supported us from that first rally on through the bus tours and 
25 whatnot. And so --and the March for Trump team. So I think that is what she was  96 
1 talking about. 
2 Q Okay. And those folks did end up talking, I think all of the people you just 
3 listed, on the 5th. But you had told her we have got this stage that is going to be at 
4 SCOTUS on the 6th and not it to say anything to anyone. So what was the plan at that 
5 time for having a stage? And when was that going to be? 
6 A So we decided to set up that stage at SCOTUS because I was afraid what 
7 happened was going to happen, that none of our speakers were going to be allowed to 
8 speak on the main stage at the Ellipse that day. And, you know, I did not want that to 
9 happen. So we did not plan to go --we did not plan to go to SCOTUS. We planned to 
10 go back to the hotel and, you know, watch the joint session of Congress. But the stage 
11 had been set up at SCOTUS, and we had a security team there. And, you know, if David 
12 Harris, Jr. or Seb or whoever, you know, were out and about and they wanted to rally the 
13 people at SCOTUS, the stage and the sound system was set up for them. If, you know, 
14 we could tell them you can go there and because when we marched, I mean the streets 
15 were all full. I mean, it was packed. And so, you know, I figured it would probably be 
16 the same way. And if anybody wanted to go there, they could and rally the people. 
17 But we didn't have a plan to go there. And that was my, I guess, backup plan in case 
18 they weren't allowed to speak and I would feel horrible. I mean, like Diamond and Silk 
19 were so angry at us. I mean, caused a scene, mad because they didn't get to speak. 
20 And I didn't want that to happen. So that is why we set up that stage there. 
21 Q Okay. Now, I'll say that, you know, we have talked to a lot of people, Ms. 
22 Kremer, and would include say security that you-all had had on hand. And there was an 
23 impression that we understand that they were going to take you and Kylie to the 
24 Supreme Court after the speech, but it's because the violence broke out that they said it 
25 wasn't safe. Do you remember that being the case that you might have had a plan to go  97 
1 yourself, but then, because of the violence, you chose not to? 
2 A I don't think I ever planned to go. I mean honestly,_ I was exhausted. 
3 We were all exhausted at that point. And we --1 mean, I had been gone from my house 
4 since November 29th. And I'd been sick in there. And I put together all these, you 
5 know, rallies. I mean, it is a lot of work doing one of those bus tours. And, honestly, 
6 the event at the Ellipse, that was, you know, the big dance, and the President was 
7 coming. And, at that point, the work was done. We could go back to the hotel and 
8 finally rest and take a break and just watch the joint session of Congress. 
9 Now, I mean, I don't know if anybody else said, you know, maybe Amy and Kylie 
10 want to go, but listen, I didn't speak at the first rally. I am not one of those people that 
11 has to always speak. I don't need to see my name in lights. It makes me happy to see 
12 other people happy. And so I can't --I don't think I ever said I was going to go to the 
13 Supreme Court. 
14 Q Okay. I appreciate that. And you see right there, but the discussion 
15 about the Supreme Court is on the night of January 3rd, and you told Kylie to keep it 
16 confidential. But I just want to show you, if we look at exhibit 9. I will just --you are 
17 not on this, but I want to see if she talked to you about this. Kylie --this is a text chain 
18 between Kylie and Mike Lindell. And if you look at page 3 and at 9:32 a.m. We will 
19 zoom in for you so you can see it. It is a lot there so let's zoom in so you can see it. 
20 And I will read it. 
21 It is prefaced by Mr. Lindell saying to Kylie: Can you check the time or times I 
22 speak tomorrow? Thanks. 
23 And this is on January 4th at 9:28 in the morning. And then Kylie responds at 
24 9:32 a.m.: I don't have any control or knowledge about tomorrow --that is the 5th --I 
25 will try and find out, but maybe better you stay away from the crazies like Alex Jones, et  98 
1 cetera, that speak tomorrow and just speak Wednesday. This stays only between us. 
2 We are having a second stage at the Supreme Court again after the Ellipse. POTUS is 
3 going to have us march there, the Capitol. It cannot get out about the second stage 
4 because people will try to set another up and sabotage it. It can also not get out about 
5 the march because I will be in trouble with the National Park Service and all the agencies, 
6 but POTUS is going to just call for it, quote, "unexpectedly," close quote. POTUS is 
7 confirming speaking schedule for the Ellipse. And we should have by COB today. If 
8 anyone tells you otherwise, it's not accurate info. Only myself and Katrina know full 
9 story of what is actually happening. And we are having to appease many people by 
10 saying certain things. So I will stop there. 
11 Did Kylie tell you that she told Mike Lindell about the Supreme Court stage? 
12 
13 
14 A 
Q 
A Not that I can recall. 
Okay. 
There were so many communications going on. And all these people, you 
15 know, are the most important people in the world and so they need to know right now. 
16 So we are dealing with all those people. And it was just a lot. 
17 Q Okay. Now this part she says about how, you know, POTUS is going to have 
18 us march there, to the Capitol, and he's just going to call for it, quote, "unexpectedly." 
19 She puts it in quotes. Did you know before January 6th that the President was going to 
20 tell people during his speech to march to the Capitol? 
21 A I don't think so. I mean, the only thing I remember about marching was Ali 
22 and, you know, when they kept putting it out. 
23 But the thing is .... , I mean, I wouldn't be surprised. Like, it wouldn't surprise 
24 me, you know, that people, that he would assume that people are going to march 
25 because you go to Washington, D.C., and I mean, whether you go from the Capitol to the  1 Supreme Court, I mean, that is --how many times --as an activist how many times have 
2 we done that in our lives? I mean, that is why people go to Washington, D.C. 
3 
4 Q 
A And so --
1 don't think you would have to tell --I mean, just thinking as a person, you 99 
5 don't have to tell those people to march. You know --they are probably just going to do 
6 it on their own. 
7 Q So, on that point, if we look at exhibit 20, this is the final permit for the 
8 Ellipse rally issued by the Park Service? 
9 
10 A 
Q Right. 
You see that is on January 5th that it's issued, and it is in the name of 
11 Women for America First. Do you remember seeing the permit? I know you have 
12 worked with this through all your career, but do you remember being involved at all at 
13 this point of seeing the permit for this event? 
14 A I mean, I don't remember seeing it. Like, I can't see myself saying, can I see 
15 the permit? I mean, maybe I did. But I don't --
16 Q Okay. But, on to the second page and to the point you were just raising, if 
17 we look at that. If you see the activity overview in the permit, it says, in the third and 
18 fourth sentences under activity overview: Women for America First will not conduct an 
19 organized march from the Ellipse at the conclusion of the rally. Some participants may 
20 leave to attend rallies at the United States Capitol to hear the results of Congressional 
21 certification of the electoral college count. 
22 So is all that accurate to the best of your knowledge? 
23 
24 A 
Q Yeah. I mean, I guess so. 
Okay. And did Women for America First end up doing an organized march 
25 from the Ellipse?  1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
7 Capitol? No. 
And did you --
We went right back to the hotel. 
Did you advertise --
No. 
--yourself that there'd be an organized march from the Ellipse to the 100 
8 A No, because they were --they said, if we said we were going to march, they 
9 were going to pull our permit. So there was no way in hell we were going to do that and 
10 risk that permit, losing that permit. Can you imagine, you know, hundreds of thousands 
11 of people showing up in Washington, D.C., and now there is no rally because we had our 
12 permit pulled? There is no way we were going to risk that. 
13 Q So, in terms of the event itself --and we are almost done --the security for 
14 the event. If we look --I just want to talk a little bit about that. Did you have RMS 
15 again for the main security? 
16 
17 A 
Q Yeah, we did. 
Okay. Okay. And if we look at exhibit 7, you know --we talked earlier 
18 about Charles Bowman, and this is a text exchange involving Kylie and yourself, and 
19 Jennifer, and Mr. Bowman, and we would just like to understand the logistics. But I 
20 think what it is, is you end up --that the request is made of Bowman to get Marshal ls and 
21 volunteers. And so, what is a Marshall versus a volunteer that Bowman is being asked 
22 to help with? 
23 
24 
25 A 
Q 
A Honestly, I have no idea. 
Okay. 
I don't. I think --I don't know if it was Justin, or Megan Powers, I don't  101 
1 know who, but somebody said we need volunteers. And Bowman knows --he's one of 
2 those people that know everybody. There were several people that said, you know, "I 
3 can reach out to some people," but Bowman knows everybody. And so that is where 
4 that came from. 
5 Q Okay. If we actually look on the message that Mr. Bowman sends --it is on 
6 that first page, but down just a little bit at 3:28 p.m., or actually the top one is fine at 
7 3:48. I'm sorry. He lists 10 names for Marshalls. And understanding you don't know 
8 what a Marshall is versus a volunteer. If we could zoom in, do you recognize any of the 
9 names on that list as people you know? 
10 
11 A 
Q Not one. 
Okay. Are you familiar with --I don't know if it is right to call it a group. It 
12 might be more of a philosophy or an ideal, of the Three Percenters? Does that mean 
13 anything to you? 
14 A You know, I have heard that term. The first time I heard that term was 
15 probably the December event or the --maybe it was November. I don't know, but that 
16 was the first time I'd ever heard that term. And I really don't think I have --I have heard 
17 it probably a couple times since, but I was not aware of what the Three Percenters are. 
18 Q To your knowledge, did you know of any Three --people affiliated with 
19 Three Percent providing security on the event on the Ellipse or being a Marshall? 
20 A No. What is Three Percenters? 
21 Q I could talk to you one on one, but for the purpose, I am just asking your 
22 perspective. But, to your knowledge, you didn't know if any of them were involved? 
23 
24 
25 A 
Q No. I didn't know any of those people. I have no idea. 
Okay. 
And, for the record, Mr. Kinzinger just joined us again. Thank you for being here.  102 
1 I just want to show, did Mr. Stockton ever talk about Three Percenters that you 
2 can remember? 
3 A You know, I think probably the first time I ever heard Three Percenters was 
4 between Bowman and Dustin. 
5 Q And did you get introduced to Bowman through Dustin? Is that how you all 
6 met? 
7 A Yes. 
8 Q Okay. And just if you focus on the first and third name that Bowman sends, 
9 Jeremy Liggett and Tarra Nicolle Hernandez. Just remember those. And if we look at 
10 exhibit 21, it is not an email you would have seen. I just want to ask whether he talked 
11 about it. You see that on December 30th of 2020, this person Tarra Hernandez, she was 
12 the name three on that list, sends to Mr. Stockton an email that says: Welcome to 
13 Three Percenters, guardians of freedom. So, just a week before the event of January 
14 6th, it is telling MR. Stockton: Welcome to Three Percenters, guardians of freedom. It 
15 is an honor to have you on our team patriots. 
16 And then, if you look down there, there is a paragraph towards the bottom that 
17 says: Please be advised, per the founder, Jeremy Liggett, you have been moved and 
18 assigned as a full active member and not a prospect member. Please disregard the 
19 mandatory meeting attendance mentioned in the attached documents. 
20 Again, just asking, do you recall him, Dustin, bringing up the notion that he joined 
21 the Three Percenters just a week before the event on January 6th? 
22 
23 A 
Q No. No. Yeah, no. 
Okay. So, in terms of the day of, can you just walk us through your day. 
24 know where you end up because you've talked about going back to the hotel afterwards. 
25 But take us from when you wake up and just walk us through what that day was like for  103 
1 you. 
2 A I mean, we didn't sleep much the night before because Caroline decided 
3 to --she was going to cause problems for us to embarrass us, and she kept our 
4 credentials. And they kept saying they were being delivered, and, I mean, they never 
5 showed up. So Jennifer and Kylie --or maybe it was just Jennifer --worked with Justin 
6 Caporale, because what are we going to do with all of our VIPs; we have no credentials? 
7 And so Justin said: We will give them wristbands, and you need to print every one of 
8 their names in big bold letters on, you know, a letter-size paper, and you go in the 
9 morning, 4, 5 a.m. and tape it to the chair, you know, the chairs so that they have their 
10 seats. And then you have them meet you at the suite or whatever, and you give them 
11 their wristbands. So that was the plan. 
12 And Jennifer was having a hard time with the printer. So I was trying to help her 
13 with that. Needless to say, she didn't sleep that night. I barely slept. And people 
14 were coming to the suite like at, I don't know, probably before 6 a.m. to get their 
15 bracelets. And so, you know, people were getting ready. People were coming in to get 
16 something to eat and then heading out, whatnot. 
17 I got dressed, and James and Kylie had already gone to the Ellipse. And I was by 
18 myself. I got dressed, and I went downstairs. And I think Jerry Anders (ph), one of our 
19 security guys, took me in the golf cart over to the Ellipse. 
20 And I went in the entrance --I think it is on 17th Street --where the speakers were 
21 going in. And it was so freaking cold. I mean, that is the one thing I can tell you. It 
22 was like 30 degrees and 20-mile-an-hour winds. It was so cold that day. And so I got 
23 there, I don't know, around 9 o'clock, maybe. And we stood backstage and just, you 
24 know, talked to people. Then I went and talked to our team that was up front. 
25 I saw Sebastian Gorka and some other people. And I felt so bad because they  104 
1 weren't able to speak. And so then I got up there and spoke. Katrina introduced me. 
2 Then I got up there. I had been told that I was only going to get like 3 minutes or 
3 something. And then, right before I went up, Tim said: Take as long as you want. 
4 And I was like: What? I thought I only got 3 minutes. 
5 
6 
7 He said: No, you can take as long as you want. 
So that kind of threw me for a loop, but it was fine. 
And, you know, people started coming, like the kids, Don Jr., Kimberly, Lara, Eric, 
8 Giuliani, and John Eastman were there. Ashley Hayek and some of the other girls from 
9 the campaign. I mean, I can't remember who all was there. But, you know, people 
10 were just milling around and talking. And then, when POTUS was on his way --so when 
11 POTUS was on his way, it was --the tent that he was going to come through was on the 
12 other side of the stage. And so we moved over to that tent. And, I mean, you would 
13 think that those tents would have heat, but they did not have heat. And so we stood 
14 and waited. 
15 And then he came in, and he's talking to everybody as he's walking through. And 
16 then he's looking at the monitors because, I mean, just to look back, it is amazing all the 
17 people that were there. I still can't believe it. I don't know if you have ever seen the 
18 pictures, but I mean people were up in the trees watching the rally. And so, he was, you 
19 know, looking at that, and everybody was talking. And then he went up on stage, and --
20 Q Before he went on stage, Ms. Kremer --just so I clear up a few things --was 
21 the Tim who ushered you up on the stage and told you to take your time Tim Unes? 
22 
23 
24 
25 A 
Q 
A 
Q Yes. 
Who works with Justin Caporale? 
Yes. 
And that is U-n-e-s.  105 
1 What were you talking about with --what did you hear the President say once he 
2 arrived but before he went on stage? Did you hear him comment on the crowd? Did 
3 you hear him comment on his expectation or what he was going to say? Just what was 
4 he talking about? 
5 A I mean, when he walked by Katrina and I, he was, like: This is amazing. 
6 You have done a great job. 
7 But, I mean, there are all these people around. It wasn't like he's --you know, 
8 we are standing here having this one-on-one conversation. And then he --because we 
9 were before the monitors. And then he was talking about the crowd. He was: Like, 
10 this is unbelievable; look at all these people. 
11 I mean, the same thing that all of us were thinking, you know. Just everybody 
12 was in disbelief the number of people that had shown up. 
13 Q Did he make any comments about the --because there are two --you had 
14 the Ellipse that was secured by a fence. Right? So people had to go through the 
15 magnetometers to come in if they wanted to be right there on the Ellipse. Right? 
16 
17 A 
Q Right. 
And there were people outside the Ellipse all the way back to the 
18 Washington Monument watching, I think. Is that right? 
19 
20 A 
Q Yes. 
Did the President talk before he got on stage about why all the people were 
21 outside of the Ellipse and finding a way to bring them into the Ellipse closer to the stage? 
22 Did you hear him talk about that? 
23 A No. I don't think there was any more room inside. I mean, there might 
24 have been, but I can tell you that from where we were, it looked packed. So it looked 
25 packed, and it just was overflow. And also people had their flags, you know, and  106 
1 backpacks and stuff. And some people --you couldn't take anything in with you so some 
2 people didn't want to do that, and so they choose to stay outside of the --inside the 
3 fence --they chose not to go inside the fence. 
4 Q Where you were in the backstage area, were you hearing from your security 
5 team or from Secret Service or anyone what, if any, type of items Secret Service is taking 
6 off of people as they came through the magnetometers or anything that gave you pause 
7 or concern? 
8 
9 A 
Q No, never. Not one single thing. 
Before the President went on stage, did you hear him make any comments 
10 about wanting to go to the Capitol himself later that day? 
11 A I don't --I think there was a comment about him --I don't know that it was 
12 about him going or about --maybe it was about him going. I don't know. It was just 
13 like a comment made, you know, like, let him lead the parade or something to that effect, 
14 knowing that, I mean, that obviously isn't going to happen. Right? 
15 Q So you don't know whether he said it or someone else said it, but you 
16 thought you heard something about him possibly leading the parade up to the Capitol? 
17 
18 
19 A 
Q 
A Right. 
Okay. 
I mean, you know, I have no idea who said it. But, as you can imagine, you 
20 know, you are having a march, you know, a parade, and he's out front. I mean, that 
21 would be pretty spectacular. But, in reality, that is not going to happen. 
22 Q And did you talk to any of his children before he arrived or even after he got 
23 there? Were you talking to Don Jr. or Ms. Guilfoyle, or Eric and Lara Trump? 
24 A No. Actually, I walked into the tent, and Kimberly Guilfoyle was like 2 feet 
25 from me. And she has always been one of the sweetest people I ever met, and she  107 
1 would not even look at me. It was really bizarre. And it was upsetting to me, and I had 
2 no idea why. 
3 And Lara came over and hugged me, and Eric was there. And we were just 
4 talking about the kids and stuff. You know, just general talk, you know. Well, come to 
5 find out Kimberly's problem was the whole thing with Caroline, and Ali and Alex Jones not 
6 being able to speak. That is what she was, I guess, mad at. I don't know. But it was 
7 odd, it was really odd. 
8 
9 
10 
11 Q And did you see Alex Jones and Ali Alexander there at the event? 
A I did. 
Q And where were they? 
A Oh, they were sitting right down front when I spoke. Ali had --Ali went and 
12 was changing --was taking the papers off of our seats, the names, and moving them back 
13 like three rows and then bringing his people up front. And I know that I think Greg 
14 Kurbatoff, one of our security guys, stopped him, told him he better stop. And Don 
15 Thompson, he did our stage and sound and whatnot; I think Don confronted him over it 
16 too. 
17 
18 
19 Q 
A Do you know how to spell Kurbatoff? 
Yes. It is K-u-r-b-a-t-o-f-f. 
Q Thanks. So did you have any personal interactions with Mr. Alexander or 
20 Alex Jones that day? 
A None whatsoever. 21 
22 Q All right. And once the President took the stage, were you listening to his 
23 speech? 
24 A I was. I was standing out to the side of the stage, like right next to the 
25 stage, but to the side kind, of to the front. And we stood there. Katrina and I stood  108 
1 there for like 10 or 15 minutes, and then we went back in the tent. 
Q Okay. 
A And stayed back there the rest of the time when he was speaking. 2 
3 
4 Q Did you hear the part of the speech where he said he was going to be with 
5 the people marching to the Capitol, that he'd go with them? 
6 A You know, what, I don't know if I heard it or not. I mean, honestly, it was 
7 so damn cold, and that speech was dragging on, and I just wanted to get out of there. 
8 
9 
10 
11 Q Okay. Were you still there when he got off the stage? 
A I was. 
Q All right. Did you talk to him before he left? 
A I did. Just in the same, you know, way. I think we were standing in the 
12 same place, like in the corridor of that tent. And he walked by and said: Thank you so 
13 much. You-all have done a great job, whatever. And there's lots of people around. 
14 Everybody's talking. It was probably --because when he finished speaking, my team 
15 went immediately back to the hotel because everybody was exhausted and so cold and 
16 hungry. And so my team went immediately back to the hotel. And the security guy, 
17 Trey (ph), who was assigned to me that day, he had been backstage with me the whole 
18 time, he --it was after POTUS left. So he got off the stage and he's talking to everybody, 
19 looking at the monitors, you know. And probably by the time he got in the car to leave, 
20 it was probably 20 or 30 minutes. And so, at that point, I think Katrina said she was 
21 going to take a golf cart --or I told her I'd get a golf cart for her to take her back to her 
22 apartment. And then Trey (ph) and I walked back over to the Willard. And my feet 
23 was so cold. I was so close to having frostbite. I mean, it took us, like, 15 or 20 
24 minutes to talk over there. My feet hurt so bad. And I went back to the hotel, and I 
25 had to take a bath because I was so cold. And I didn't leave that hotel until we left that  109 
1 weekend. That was it. 
2 Q Did you have a sense from where you were, or maybe you didn't, in the 
3 backstage area during the President's speech, what the reaction of the crowd was to the 
4 things he was saying? Were you able it to perceive or get a sense of that? 
5 A I mean, you can always hear the crowd when they --when he says 
6 something that, you know, they go nuts over or whatever. I am sure I heard it. But, 
7 -when I tell you I wanted that damn speech to end. I was so cold, I mean, that is 
8 all. It was, like, I have heard them all. I just need to go. 
9 
10 Q Okay. I hear you on that. 
So when did you first learn about the violence at the Capitol? I guess after 
11 de-thawing and getting out of the bath, I imagine? 
12 A Yeah. I can't --I mean, honestly, I can't remember. We had one of the 
13 biggest suites at the Willard because we would do dinner together, and it was like a place 
14 where, you know, people would congregate and whatnot. And so people were coming 
15 in and out of the suite, and there were a number of TVs on. So I don't remember at 
16 what point seeing what was going on. I don't remember exactly what time it was or 
17 where, but I just remember --I think, at first, there was news about the bombs at the 
18 DNC and RNC. And then I think that, you know, we saw what was happening at the 
19 Capitol. And it just --I mean, it was all that was on TV at that point. 
20 Q And did anybody from your team go to the Capitol that you know of, or did 
21 everybody stay put? 
22 A So I told everybody --well, first of all, when we realized what was going on at 
23 the Capitol, I told James and one or two of our security guys: You need to get that stage 
24 down at the Supreme Court and get out of there because we want nothing to do with 
25 this.  110 
1 And so I guess probably within an hour, hour and a half that stage was down, and 
2 they were out of there. 
3 I told our team nobody needed to go to the Capitol, just stay put. I mean, we 
4 had all already said that --I mean, we were going to sit --we were going back to the 
5 hotel, going to order food, and watch the joint session play out on TV. I think it was 
6 supposed to start at 1 o'clock. So that was our plan. And when I tell you we were 
7 exhausted we were, we were exhausted. But then, when all the stuff started happening 
8 at the Capitol, I said to everybody: We don't need to be a part of that. Just stay put, 
9 stay here. 
10 And then I do think that Jeff Rainforth (ph), who did our videos and he had 
11 traveled with us, I think he had gone to the Capitol to shoot video. And so, when we 
12 saw what was happening at the Capitol, somebody went in the golf cart to get him, but I 
13 can't remember who. 
14 Q And I know you all put out a statement I think that day denouncing the 
15 violence. Is that right? Were you behind --did you work on that yourself? 
16 A It was Chris Baron (ph) and I. 
17 Q Okay. 
18 A He is like our media and press. 
19 Q Have you talked to any of the Trump family, including the President, since 
20 then about the events that day? 
21 A No. I haven't talked to --I haven't talked to anybody about the events that 
22 day. And I think the only person that I have talked to is I talked to Lara Trump. Back in 
23 April, we did an event at Trump Doral. It was a Save America Summit, and I texted Lara 
24 to see if she could come. And they were out of town or something; I can't remember. 
25 But I think she's the only one that I have talked to. And that was just about coming to  1 that event. 
2 Q And, going back to the topic we discussed earlier with regard to the 
3 November and December rallies, did you or any members of your team talk with any 
4 Members of Congress or Senators or their staffs about participation in the January 6th 
5 event, that you know of? 
6 
7 A 
Q You mean the joint session of Congress? 
No, I am sorry. I meant about --I should have been more clear. About 111 
8 the rallies. The Ellipse rally or even the SCOTUS stage you had set up or the January 5th 
9 event at Freedom Plaza. Do you know whether you or anyone on your team were 
10 talking to Members or Senators about those events? 
11 A No. We weren't because we weren't in charge at that point. Like, we 
12 already had, you know, the Sebastian Gorkas and David Harris, Jrs. that were going to 
13 speak, were planning to speak. And then, once, you know, he decided to come and we 
14 were no longer in charge of, you know, who was speaking and how it was going to go 
15 down, there was no point in us reaching out to anybody about that. 
16 Q I think at least Mr. Madison Cawthorn, we have seen something that 
17 suggests that he said a rally organizer asked him if he would participate in the rally on the 
18 6th. And he did end up speaking. And I, you know, accommodations had to be made 
19 for him to be able to get on the stage. So there was at least some foreplanning there. 
20 Do you know who it was who reached out to Mr. Cawthorn to get him to come to that 
21 event? 
22 A I honestly don't. I mean, I didn't know he --he was not on the list. He 
23 was not on the list. And I didn't know --I mean, I wasn't expecting him there. 
24 Q Did you see Mr. Giuliani or Mr. Eastman? Or do you know how they got 
25 there?  112 
1 A No. I don't think they were on the list either, and neither was Ken Paxton, 
2 and neither was Vernon Jones. 
And do you know how any of those gentleman ended up there? 3 
4 Q 
A No --I mean, I just remember Katrina and I looking at each other saying: 
5 What the hell? Where are these people coming from? 
6 I mean, the only thing that we would come up with is that Justin was letting them 
7 up on the stage. 
8 Q Okay. Well, I will stop there and see if my colleague, 
9 questions. And then I will ask the broader group that has joined us. 
10 
11 I don't have anything. Thank you. 
Okay. I'll ask if anybody else who is on the Webex has any 
12 questions? 
Mr. Kinzinger. I don't. Thank you. 
Thank you, Mr. Kinzinger. 
Mrs. Luria? 
Mrs. Luria. No questions. 
Thank you, Mrs. Luria. has any 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 So, Ms. Kremer, I want to thank you for taking the time. It's clear why you are 
19 able to do bus tours and then have the stamina to go straight with only taking one break, 
20 but we really appreciate it. 
21 And, unless there is anything more to discuss today, if there are any questions 
22 from you all, I think we can be done for the day. 
23 And, Ms. Kremer, you are done with us. 
24 Ms. Kremer. Well, thank you. 
25 Mr. Warrington. -we will follow up.  113 
1 Okay. Sounds good. We will adjourn the interview and be done 
2 for the day. Thank you everyone for joining us. 
3 
4 Mr. Warrington. Thank you. 
[Whereupon, at 1:58 p.m., the interview was concluded.]  1 
2 
3 Certificate of Deponent/Interviewee 
4 I have read the foregoing __ pages, which contain the correct transcript of the 
5 answers made by me to the questions therein recorded. 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 Witness Name 
Date 114 