New iMessage Cancel 
To: Mark Jefferson . 
Now how are we gonna get this silly electors meeting canceled? I fear that we won't. 
We won't. We will have to carefully craft a press release. Do you think we can do it virtually?? 
Preserve legal rights as case moves forward ... ~ 
I texted with henry about the following trump tweet today. 
Between Governor @DougDucey of 
Arizona and Governor @BrianKempGA of 
Georgia, the Democrat Party could not be 
happier. They fight harder against us than 
do the Radical Left Dems. If they were with 
us, we would have already won both 
Arizona and Georgia ... 
Donald J. Trump 
twitter.com 
Doubt virtual. But Capitol is closed so that could be concern. Or an advantage cause if we get in 
there's no crowd. 
Both of us think it's unacceptable . I am seriously considering a warning shot to trainer or Clayton. If he 
does This in wi, I am going to defend our guys 
Can we find out how the Dems plans to do it? 
Will talk with Chaz tomorrow. He's helping with this, school boards and research. 
Got it. Sounds good. 
On DJT that last sentence sure is a problem. Reince might be more help than either of them. What can 
they do? 
No one can do a damn thing but I want them to know I am not siding with trump if he goes after our 
1Me ,sage • 
Hitt000080  New iMessage Cancel 
To: Mark Jefferson . I 0 
Ron called me right after and now is arguing for us to have the legislature choose the electors. - What is he doing 
There is a huge amount of pressure building on them to find a way around the electoral college. 
How can he feel good about promoting that though? 
Does he believe we won here? 
Yes I feel like he believes whoever he talked to last. 
One thing I keep forgetting to tell you. I think we have to use katie for convention and come up with 
some set amount we give her. I think we should get away from having our finance person do it anyway 
but more Important we don't have Sabrina even full time yet until after may. 
Talked to katie. She said Glenn had a couple trainable kids that might be able to do finance, for what 
it's worth v 
You really don't like Sabrina? Guess we need to talk about this. 
No I'm there if you are. Just need to keep on her I think. 
He hasn't said anything 
1Mess ae Ya I don't have that problem. Does Alec have issues? He has never said anything and always says 
good things to me. 
Part of this is she is still In school. And she has been a little cov1d crazy at times. 
• 
Hitt000081  To: Mark Jefferson. I 
I am not sure what to 
Do with this. New iMessage 
Oec 11, 2020, 1:27 PM ?76%~• 
Cancel 
0 
Hi Andrew. This is Whitney Meyers who called and left you a message. In addition to needing to know 
the status on Wisconsin and the elector slate, we also need a prominent member of the Wisconsin 
legislature to put in an amicus brief in support of the Texas election SCOTUS filing. 
Tap to Download 
voicemail-1004.m4a 
81.9 KB 
I can talk to her about the electors stuff, but the member of the legislature idea isn't going to get very 
far. 
Copy. Or have Jordan call her 
Dec 11, 2020, 2:47 PM 
From that same lawyer. Could someone reach out: 
Please contact Don Brown, the lawyer who is working this in support of the Texas filing team. 
Dec 11, 2020, 4:14 PM 
To confirm, I will send a text to the electors this afternoon . 
1~esscoe Tap to Download 
Don Brown.vet 
0.2 KB 
• 
Hitt000082  9 76%1W]• 
New iMessage Cancel 
To: Mark Jefferson. 0 
Dec 11, 2020, 4:14 PM 
To confirm, I will send a text to the electors this afternoon. 
Yes I think that is probably what we need to do 
Dec 11, 2020, 5:47 PM 
I talked to Don Brown a couple minutes ago. He had just gotten word that the Supreme Court denied 
their case so that one may be over. Earlier I had left a voicemail for that Whitney person. 
Dec 12, 2020, 1:47 PM 
Schimming is wanting me to talk with Ken chesboro, who is sitting in their office. Any interest in being 
on the call. Re: electors meeting. And whatever else. I don't think there's any particular concern but it's 
still on no matter what, it appears. 
Go ahead and do 1t. Just let me know what comes of It We should plan to walk through everything 
you and I tomorrow . 
Schimming: On phone conf with Rudy G, he is saying to all states: no heads up to any Media on 
electors meetings 
These guys are up to no good and its gonna fail miserably 
There goes Troupis statement 
We can do whatever we want after and with us. We don't answer to them. 
I wonder if we should have Bob and I go into the capital at like 930 and then slowly bring others and 
starting at 10:30 to 1130 . No one will recognize anyone else except for Bob and I, I think 
Probably. 
Staff will be recognized 
Hitt000083  9'76%(~) 
New iMessage Cancel 
To: Mark Jefferson . I 0 
Maybe we limit staff. Or zoom you guys in. 
Well that's an interesting idea. Now I'm thinking what about sending Jordan and Sabrina because 
somebody needs to record it and help pass out ballots perhaps. Nobody knows them. Me and Chaz 
stay back, and we make a decision on Zimmerman . 
Dec 12, 2020, 7:46 PM 
Iverson: National has a fire drill --do you have the electors contact info? They gave us a tracker to fill 
out. 
I could send their addresses and call it good maybe 
Dec 13, 2020, 1:17 PM Sure. That's fine. 
Feel good about tomorrow? Just have people come to rpw and the. Take a few diff cars. Maybe have 
Sp1ndell and I go in at 10:30 before anyone is paying attention? 
I guess. Are you bringing down the big boat? 
Yes. Pam is headed down tonight. I certainly can. 
Do you think we need to plan for anything more elaborate or are we good. 
You heard from Pam and Kathy k is good? 
Dec 13, 2020, 4:09 PM 
Ryan Terrill sending us a calendar invite for 2pm tomorrow to just do a quick debrief and to make sure 
we have correct addresses etc. 
I u,:i.c-hl"'lr'\inn :it 1 n'r-lr..r-1.- ,.uo 111u,11IM nO\tOr h'!IHO tn t::dV tn tho.co nonnlo :::iin..::ain • 
Hitt000084  976%~• 
New iMessage Cancel 
To: Mark Jefferson. I 0 
Oec 13, 2020, 4:09 PM 
Ryan Terrill sending us a calendar invite for 2pm tomorrow to just do a quick debrief and to make sure 
we have correct addresses etc. 
I was hoping at 1 o'clock we would never have to talk to these people again. 
Hopefully the last one. Will you guys have a copy of that script for me tomorrow? 
It's available now. It's in a packet for you. We do need to update it now to add the appointment of 
Kathy. 
Awesome. Did you already send to me? I haven't looked at my email. 
And we will have to update the forms that we had printed out as well. 
Apparently Ken Chesboro is inviting himself to this thing. I told him we are going to be meeting there 
and that only the 10 electors and two staff will be going. But it sounds like he thinks he's going to invite 
himself. •1¥:1+~ 
Whatever . Ryan mentioned that national is pushing for staffing in every state but Ryan said we are the 
most prepared state and that I was not Kelli Ward and have our shit together. ~ ~ ~ ~. She is a nut. 
To confirm, we would like everybody to meet at the RPW office, 148 E. Johnson St., by 11 AM 
tomorrow. We will transport folks from there. Thank you for your time tomorrow and we will see you in 
the morning. Again please keep confidential. We are being asked not to draw attention if we can help 
it. 
I will send to everyone. Ok? 
Should we send a sep 
IMessc.Je -• 
Hitt000085  New iMessage 
To: Mark Jefferson. 
Should I send Bob a text and see if he's willing to do that? or bring him in at the very last minute. 
Where should we hide you guys? 9 76%1ii] • 
Cancel 
0 
That's a good idea actually too. Bring Bob in right at noon or something. 
Or Just take us both at 10:30. Test1n office or senate parlor? 
We also have hearing room 330 SE. reserved. And we may want to do that since we have to walk past 
Senator Janet Bewley's office to get to the parlor. 
Ah makes sense. Not the parlor then. 
Where is testin in relation to 330 se 
He is ground floor south. To get you there we would probably have you walk in from the end of the 
south wing. 
Got it. Tomorrow is gonna be wild. 
Clayton send security team was approved but we will see if anything comes of 1t. Probably overkill but 
whatever. 
How do we logistically use them? 
Have to see. My guess is doesn't come through. 
If the idea is to be inconspicuous, we should not have them around the room. If anything we have them 
walk in at 11:55 and just roam the halls elsewhere and be available. 
Yep. And outside the Capitol to help when we leave. Main thing would be to help get us in 1f for some 
reason this blows up and protesters block us from getting in. 
From Tommy hicks. I sent him your contact. 
Me cdq • 
Hitt000086  To: Mark Jefferson. I New iMessage Cancel 
0 
Yep. And outside the Capitol to help when we leave. Main thing would be to help get us in 1t for some 
reason this blows up and protesters block us from getting in. 
From Tommy hicks. I sent him your contact. 
Andrew 
Gov Perry introduced me to a Texas businessman (John Robinson) who's data expert (self funding I 
believe) who's trying to do something that proves through statistics and painting a narrative in Ml, AZ, 
Wl,GA. 
David Shafer said they did good work in GA through their data/mailing vendor. I 
Think this is important for Jan 6. 
If interested, please pass along your ED's contact card. Totally drawing a blank on his name! 
I have nothing to do with this, just trying to connect the dots for someone doing the Lords work. 
Thx t 
Clearly there is some big plan in the works with all the states still doing elector meetings. 
I talked to Bob Spindel!. He's open to whichever we decide. I am going to send a text message out to 
everybody now. 
Copy, 
Sounds good. I think probably go with your gut on Bob. Mine is a little more he and I both go at 10. 
Dec 13, 2020, 8:34 PM 
Page 8 of Spindell's email to us has a footnote that notes that the trump pence campaign has 
requested that the electors meet on Monday. Apparent ly commissioners received a note from the staff 
saying they did not know whether or not the Republicans plan on meeting. Interesting. 
Well when the media says we hid it, we can be like, look idiots, it's right here. 
Maybe that's why Bauer asked you 
~A::rnh<> th<>11'II :,II i, 1<:t h<> m:>tt<>r-nf-far,tl11 w:,itinn fnr 11<: Th<>n w<> i, 1<:t nn "hn, ,t n, ,r h, 1<:in<><:<: • 
Hitt000087  New iMessage 
To: Mark Jefferson. I 
Maybe that's why Bauer asked you ":'"76%.:) • 
Cancel 
0 
Maybe they'll all just be matter-of-factly waiting for us. Then we just go about our business. 
•i@Mii~ 
Dec 14, 2020, 9,57 AM 
We have a four man security team. They are here at rpw 
What's your eta? 
What is your observation so far? 
I think we can't waste entry on staff probably. Alec and Trublood are going to hold at coopers. 
Ok. 
Dec 14, 2020, 2010 PM 
This is only the beginning. Good Lord. 
Dec 15, 2020, 11:02 AM 
Vicky ok about it? 
Messdge Call Heather's phone 
We are going around the block 
•iii:i+JA 
Give me a quick shout 
I am free if you are, it just rang once and hung up 
• 
Hitt000088  New iMessage 
To: Mark Jefferson. I 
Jan 4, 2021, 9:02 PM 
Freaking trump idiots want someone to fly original elector papers to the senate President. They're 
gonna call one of us to tell us just what the hell is going on. They talked to Jordan. I told Jordan to 
them that. Cancel 
Ok I see I have a missed call from Roman and a text from someone else. Did you talk to them already? 
This is just nuts. 
Send Perryman out there tomorrow? 
Yeah. Hell Heather wants to do it. But probably Perryman . 
She really wants to go through 
This can't get any weirder. 
Send her. Why not? Might as well be some damn perk being with with you! ~ 
Says it's her reward for making that meeting possible to begin with 
I didn't. 
Maybe see if you think it's legit 
Cause I don't get it 
Ok. I will call in about 20 min. •iii!Ji♦ 
And she has a point! 
So Do I need to call them back or you talked to them? 
' . m 0) iMe, ,age • 
Hitt000089  New iMessage 
To: Mark Jefferson. 
Freaking trump idiots want someone to fly original elector papers to the senate President. They're 
gonna call one of us to tell us just what the hell is going on. They talked to Jordan. I told Jordan to 
them that. Cancel 
0 
Ok I see I have a missed call from Roman and a text from someone else. Did you talk to them already? 
This is just nuts. 
Send Perryman out there tomorrow? 
Yeah. Hell Heather wants to do it. But probably Perryman. 
She really wants to go through 
This can't get any weirder. 
Send her. Why not? Might as well be some damn perk being with with you! ~ 
Says it's her reward for making that meeting possible to begin with 
I didn't. 
Maybe see if you think it's legit 
Cause I don't get it 
Ok. I will call in about 20 min. •i/414♦ 
And she has a point! 
So Do I need to call them back or you talked to them? 
We probably aren't gonna say no tho right esp 1f all they want is someone to hop on a plane? • 
Hitt000090 