J.00747lEllis 
This is too legalese but what Congress has from me: 
Six states currently have electoral delegates in dispute and there is sufficient rational and 
legal basis to question whether the state law and Constitution was followed. There is clear basis 
in the Constitutional text that the Vice President's role is to open all electoral votes from the 
electors chosen in the "manner" prescribed by the state legislatures. The Vice President cannot 
fulfill that responsibility if he does not know which ones were so chosen. 
On January 6, the Vice President should therefore not open any of the votes from these 
six states, and instead direct a question to the legislatures of each of those states and ask them to 
confirm which of the two slates of electors have in fact been chosen in the manner the legislature 
has provided for under Article II, Section 1.2 of the U.S. Constitution. The Vice President should 
open all other votes from states where electors have been certified and count accordingly. 
The question would then require a response from the state legislatures, which would then 
need to meet in an emergency electoral session (which they may constitutionally call for on their 
own power, notwithstanding any other provision of state law-state law may not impede the 
legislatures from fulfilling their Constitutional duty). 
In his formal request, the Vice President should require a timely response from each state 
legislature. If any state legislature fails to provide a timely response, no electoral votes can be 
opened and counted from that state. The Constitution provides that if no candidate for President 
receives a majority of electoral votes, the Congress shall vote by state delegation. This would 
provide two and one-half days for Congress to meet and vote by delegation prior to January 20 at 
noon for inauguration. 
This is a meritorious request because the Vice President has taken an oath to uphold the 
Constitution. He is not exercising discretion nor establishing new precedent, simply asking for 
clarification from the constitutionally appointed authority. Further, it would cement precedent 
that the Constitution requires the state legislatures to act as the sole authority of the "manner" of 
selecting electoral delegates, and cannot delegate their plenary authority to the state executive 
branch in a manner that violates Article II and the separation of powers. 
Sent from my iPhone 
J.00747lEllis 