The Allied Security Operations Group Antrim Michigan Forensics Report draws conclusions from thin 
evidence and descriptions of software Antrim County does not own, for versions of the software that 
are not compatible with the version of the voting system Antrim County owns and would require 
hardware Antrim County does not have. 
• Claims of impropriety through software adjudication in the Election Management Software are 
not relevant, as Antrim County does not use the software application in question, and does not 
have compatible systems, mainly the for this adjudication software, mainly the lmageCast 
Central Tabulator. 
• Implications that a lack of forensic logs for processes that Antrim County does not and cannot 
use are evidence of an untrustworthy process are unsupportable. If Antrim Co does not and 
cannot use software Adjudication, the lack of digital logs for software adjudication is to be 
expected. 
• Suggesting that scanned ballots that were designated, or alerted, for further review is evidence 
of an abnormally high "error rate" is false and misleading. When hand-marked paper ballots are 
scanned by a machine, the machine will alert election officials to things like write-in voting, 
damaged ballots, overvotes, undervotes, and stray marks. 
• Speculation of that any findings reflect that Ranked Choice Voting may have been enabled is not 
supportable when the systems in question in Antrim County, Dominion Voting System's (DVS) 
Democracy Suite (D-Suite) 5.5 do not have that Ranked Choice Voting capability- the 
screenshot provided is for D-Suite 5.11. 
The report also demonstrates a callous misunderstanding of the actual current voting system 
certification process to the US Election Assistance Commission's Voluntary Voting System Guidelines, a 
misunderstanding of elections infrastructure as critical infrastructure, and posits non-existent provisions 
within the Help America Vote Act. 
Most importantly, voters in Antrim County, Michigan, voted on paper ballots. Those records are being 
reviewed and recounted, by hand. This verification, independent of the software and hardware systems 
in question, will be most indicative of the trustworthiness of the systems. 