1 
2 
3 
4 SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE THE 
5 JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL, 
6 U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
7 WASHINGTON, D.C. 
8 
9 
10 
11 INTERVIEW OF: RUBY FREEMAN 
12 
13 
14 
15 Tuesday, May 31, 2022 
16 
17 
18 
19 Washington, D.C. 
20 The interview in the above matter was held in Room 4480, O'Neill House Office 
21 Building, commencing at 4:59 p.m. 
22 Present: Representative Schiff. 1  1 
2 Appearances: 
3 
4 
5 For the SELECT COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE 
6 THE JANUARY 6TH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL: 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 , STAFF ASSOCIATE 
INVESTIGATIVE COUNSEL 
, PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBER 
13 For RUBY FREEMAN: 
14 
15 MICHAELJ. GOTTLIEB, PARTNER, WILLKIE FARR & GALLAGHER LLP 
16 ELEANOR WALKER, ASSOCIATE, WILLKIE FARR & GALLAGHER LLP 
17 MERYL GOVERNSKI, ASSOCIATE, WILLKIE FARR & GALLAGHER LLP 
18 JOHN TYLER KNOBLETT, ASSOCIATE, WILLKIE FARR & GALLAGHER LLP 
19 RACHEL GOODMAN, COUNSEL, PROTECT DEMOCRACY 
20 JOHN LANGFORD, COUNSEL, PROTECT DEMOCRACY 
21 DAVID A. SCHULZ, SENIOR COUNSEL, BALLARD SPAHR 2  1 
2 Ms. - Good afternoon. This is a transcribed interview of Ruby Freeman, 
3 conducted by the House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the 
4 United States Capitol pursuant to House Resolution 503. 
5 At this time, I'd like to ask the witness to please state your full name and spell 
6 your last name for the record. 
7 Ms. Freeman. Ruby Jewel Freeman. My name is Ruby Jewel Freeman. And 
8 the spelling of the last name is F-r-e-e-m-a-n. 
9 Ms.- Thank you very much. 
10 And, counsel for Ms. Freeman, could you please identify yourselves for the 
11 record? 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 Mr. Langford. Sure. My name is John Langford. 
Ms. Governski. Meryl Governski, with Willkie Farr & Gallagher. 
Mr. Gottlieb. Michael Gottlieb, with Willkie Farr & Gallagher. 
Mr. Knoblett. John Tyler Knoblett, for Willkie Farr & Gallagher. 
Ms.. And I think we have some co-counsel here participating virtually. 
17 Are you able to hear us? 
18 
19 Ms. Goodman. Yes. This is Rachel Goodman, with Protect Democracy. 
Ms.- Let's see. And it looks like --is there someone else? Ms. Walker, 
20 can you hear us? 
21 
22 
23 Ms. Walker. Yes. This is Eleanor Walker, with Willkie Farr & Gallagher. 
Ms.~ Great. Thank you very much. 
So thank you all for being here this afternoon. I will go over some preliminaries 
24 before we get started today. 
25 So, as I mentioned before we went on the record, this is going to be a staff-led 3  4 
1 interview today. Members of the select committee may join us. When they do so, 
2 they will do so virtually. We will do our best to announce their arrival for the record and 
3 for your awareness. And if any of them choose while they are here to ask questions, 
4 they may do so. We probably won't announce when they leave because it can be hard 
5 to keep track, and they will hopefully come in and out if they are able to join us. 
6 Again, as I said off the record, my name is I am an investigative 
7 counsel for the select committee. And I am joined in the room today by my colleague 
8 
9 , professional staff member for the committee. 
And before we begin, Ms. Freeman, I'd just like to go over some ground rules for 
10 our interview today. They're the same rules we give to everyone. So thanks for your 
11 patience as I go through them. 
12 So there are official reporters here. They are going to be creating a transcript of 
13 the interview today. As I mentioned before, we are recording this through the video 
14 camera here, but the official record of the interview is the transcript that our official 
15 reporters are creating. You and your attorneys will have an opportunity to review the 
16 transcript and suggest any corrections before it's finalized. 
17 And because we're creating the official record in the transcript, we'll ask that you 
18 please wait until our questions are finished before you start talking, and I will similarly try 
19 my best not to start a new question before you've been able to answer your own, just so 
20 that the record is as clear as possible. 
21 We'll also ask that you give verbal responses to our questions as opposed to a 
22 shaking head or nodding head, because the reporters can only record a verbal response. 
23 I also say, you know, we appreciate your appearance here voluntarily, and we're 
24 pleased to be able to meet with you in person. So thank you for making the trip up here 
25 to do that.  5 
1 Although today's interview is not under oath like a deposition would be, I do want 
2 to remind you, as we remind all of our witnesses, that it is unlawful to deliberately 
3 provide false information to Congress. Do you understand that? 
4 
5 
6 Ms. Freeman. Yes, ma'am. 
Ms.~ Okay. 
So, again, it's really important that you understand our questions and are able to 
7 answer them to the best of your ability today. So, if anything I ask you is unclear or if 
8 you need any clarification, please don't hesitate to ask, and I'd be happy to rephrase. 
9 have been known to ask an unclear question every once in a while, so please don't 
10 hesitate. 
11 And, again, we ask that you respond only to your ability to do so truthfully. So, if 
12 you don't know the answer to a question, please say that, or if you don't recall, please 
13 just tell us that that's the case. 
14 And, logistically, we are happy to take any breaks that you need during our time 
15 today. I don't want to --we are going to try not to keep you here overly long. But if 
16 you need any breaks, either to go outside, have a bathroom break, get something to 
17 drink, or if you need to consult with your attorneys, please just let us know and we're 
18 happy to do that. You could have a brief sidebar in here, or we can take you back to the 
19 other room we have available if you'd like to have a longer conversation. 
20 So any questions about all of those throat-clearing --the preliminaries here? 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 Ms. Freeman. No questions. 
Ms. - Okay. Wonderful. 
Counsel, anything to address? 
Mr. Gottlieb. Nothing to address, and no questions. 
Ms.~ Okay. Great.  1 Ms. Freeman, I understand that you've prepared something, a statement that 
2 you'd like to share with us. Is that right? 
3 
4 
5 
6 Ms. Freeman. That is correct. 
Ms- Okay. Please go ahead. We're happy to listen. 
Ms. Freeman. Well, thank you for inviting me here to tell me story. 
I should not be here. You should not know me or my name. My name is Ruby 
7 Freeman. I've always believed it when God says that he'll make your name great, but 
8 this is not the way it was supposed to be. I could've never imagined the events that 
9 followed the Presidential election in 2020. 
10 For my entire professional life, I was Lady Ruby. My community in Georgia 
11 where I was born and lived my whole life knew me as Lady Ruby. I built my own 
12 business around that name, La Ruby's Unique Treasures, a pop-up shop catering to ladies 
13 with unique fashions. 
14 I wore a shirt that proudly proclaimed that I was and I am Lady Ruby. Actually, I 
15 had that shirt in every color. I wore that shirt on election day 2020. I haven't worn it 
16 since, and I'll never wear it again. 
17 Now I won't even introduce myself by my name anymore. I get nervous when I 
18 bump into someone I know in the grocery store who says my name. I'm worried about 
19 who's listening. I get nervous when I have to give my name for food orders. I'm 
20 always concerned of who is around me. 6 
21 I've lost my name, and I've lost my reputation. I've lost my sense of security --all 
22 because a group of people, starting with Number 45 and his ally Rudy Giuliani, decided to 
23 scapegoat me and my daughter, Shaye, to push their own lies about how the Presidential 
24 election was stolen. 
25 Some of his supporters and right-wing media organizations repeated those lies  1 over and over. They accused me of committing crimes, of helping to steal the election. 
2 They accused me of hiding ballots in suitcases, of counting ballots multiple times, of 
3 passing around some kind of flash drive by hacking machines that they said were being 
4 controlled by foreign governments. 
5 
6 None of this is true. None of it. Not one single piece of it. 
What is true is that I signed up as an election worker because I believe in our 
7 democracy. I signed up to support my daughter, Shaye, whose entire professional 
8 career has been devoted to making sure that Fulton County elections are fair and that 
9 every vote is counted. 
10 I taught my daughter that if you are going to something, you do it right, and you 
11 do it well. And she did. Shaye was dedicated to her job and making sure that it was 
12 done right. It made me proud to watch her succeed in a profession that she loved. 
13 We showed up to work on election night, proud to be playing a small role in 7 
14 American democracy. That's the thing that people who attack us refuse to accept: For 
15 us, like countless other election workers, we don't show up to help any candidate or 
16 political party. We show up to help the voters --the millions of voters who take time off 
17 from their work or school, who travel for miles and stand in line for hours to have their 
18 voices heard. 
19 Our work honors those voters, those who fought and sacrificed to make sure that 
20 all people have the right to vote in America. Doing this work is not about politics; it is 
21 about democracy, fairness, and respect for our fellow citizens. 
22 But because some people didn't like the outcome of the fair and accurate election 
23 in Fulton County, they decided to attack Shaye and me by name and by picture. 
24 received hundreds of racist, threatening, horrible calls and messages that I do not even 
25 feel comfortable describing here.  8 
1 I had to move out of my house because the FBI said it wasn't safe. Strangers 
2 came by my home the week of January 6th. One person told me I had 48 hours to give 
3 them some sort of statement to avoid going to jail --to admit to something I never did. 
4 They tried to force their way into my mom's house to do a citizens' arrest on 
5 Shaye and me. Friends and members of my community were afraid to even be 
6 associated with me because they didn't want to get caught up in the harassment. 
7 There is nowhere I feel safe --nowhere. 
8 Do you know how it feels to have the President of the United States to target you? 
9 The President of the United States is supposed to represent every American, not to target 
10 one. But he targeted me, Lady Ruby, a small-business owner, a mother, a proud 
11 American citizen who stood up to help Fulton County run an election in the middle of the 
12 pandemic. He said my name 18 times --18 times --to the Georgia secretary of state, 
13 accusing me of election fraud. 
14 The President of the United States made up lies about two ordinary Americans for 
15 his own personal gain. Then he and he allies like Rudy Giuliani and those in the media 
16 who repeat whatever they say spoon fed us as enemies and villains to their mob. They 
17 said we were like drug dealers passing out ballots. Targeted American election workers 
18 as a prop in the "big lie." 
19 And, lo and behold, when someone as powerful as the President of the United 
20 States eggs on a mob, that mob will come. They came for us with their cruelty, their 
21 threats, their racism, and their hats. They haven't stopped even today. 
22 Number 45 and his crew have destroyed our lives. So I won't call Number 45 by 
23 his name. He and his allies took my name, so I won't utter his. 
24 This isn't political for me. This is about truth and decency. I'm here today for 
25 more than myself and my daughter. I hope that by me telling my story that you all can  9 
1 help prevent the next Ruby becoming a target, the next Shaye. Something needs to be 
2 done. I'm here. The people need to be held accountable. 
3 Congress needs to protect our election workers. It needs to take steps to 
4 prevent the spread of lies that threaten our democracy. I am just one name, one 
5 reputation, one life devastated by disinformation, but there are so many more, and there 
6 will be even more if things don't change. 
7 Throughout all of this, I have been blessed by my family, friends, and my faith. 
8 And despite it all, I've never questioned my faith, and I still do not. My faith is all I have, 
9 because I'm reminded in the Word that faith is the substance of things hoped for and the 
10 evidence of things unseen. 
11 But faith alone is not enough to save our country and democracy. Faith without 
12 works is dead. This requires action and change to ensure that what happened to us will 
13 never happen again. And in order to get something different, you have to do something 
14 different to get it. 
15 Thank you. 
16 Ms~ Thank you very much. I'm not sure that I should continue with any 
17 questioning because there's not very much that I can add to that. 
18 So thank you very much for being here. Thank you for sharing those thoughts. 
19 I know this has all been very difficult, has been hugely difficult for you. So, especially in 
20 light of that, thank you for sharing it, and thank you for your patience as we have a 
21 conversation about it. 
22 I just want to state, before we go into some of the, you know, history here and 
23 what you've gone through, that we really appreciate for all of the reasons that you just 
24 identified, because, on behalf of the select committee, I know that the members of the 
25 committee feel that what happened to you and to your daughter is not only wrong and  10 
1 unjust but they hope that our work here can have something, you know, positive to do to 
2 make sure that it doesn't happen again. 
3 
4 Ms. Freeman. Thank you. 
Ms. - So thank you for that. 
5 I also just want to say that our hope today is to be able to get as much of your 
6 story to be a part of our record and our work here as possible, but we don't want to make 
7 what is a difficult circumstance for you any harder. 
8 So, if there are, sort of, some areas here that we're going to talk about today that 
9 are particularly sensitive or difficult for you to relive, I hope that you'll let me know that, 
10 and we can find a way to work around it, because I don't want to make this any more 
11 difficult for you. 
12 So thank you in advance for your patience with my questions, and please let me 
13 know if there's anything that you want to take off the record. Okay? 
14 
15 
16 
17 Ms. Freeman. Okay. 
EXAMINATION 
Q So, Ms. Freeman, thank you very much again for those comments. 
18 I would love to just rewind a little bit and talk a bit more about your personal 
19 background before we get into the fact of what happened around the November 2020 
20 election. 
21 So where are you from originally? 
22 
23 
24 
25 A 
Q 
A 
Q Georgia. 
From Georgia. Have you lived in Georgia your whole life? 
I have, yes, ma'am. I have lived in Georgia my entire life. 
That's great.  11 
1 And what's your educational background? 
2 A I finished high school. I went to secretarial school, my educational 
3 background. And I --that's it. Went to secretarial school, and I --yeah. 
That's great. 
That's my educational background. 4 
5 
6 Q 
A 
Q And I know you mentioned in your opening, your statement there, that you 
7 are a small-business owner --
8 
9 A 
Q Yes. 
--that you started your own pop-up boutique. Can you tell us a little bit 
10 more about that? How long have you --or, when did you first start your company? 
11 A I first started my company in 1987. I was a street vendor for Atlanta-Fulton 
12 County Stadium. I started out then when the Braves went to the World Series, from the 
13 worst to the first. And later I did the Olympics. I was the first one to start taking 
14 charge card machines. We had the big black bag phones then. 
15 So a lot of authentic merchandise, mainly, and so I was always known as "the 
16 Neiman Marcus lady" that the merchandise just like inside. And I did that for a while, 
17 and then once it got to be just kind of --well, everybody sold Braves merchandise then, so 
18 I stopped. 
19 And I went back to working Fulton County, and I saw vendors downstairs. And I 
20 was like, wow, what are they doing? What are they doing down there? And I noticed 
21 that they were selling purses and stuff. And I heard a voice that told me, it's not over, 
22 it's just time to change gears. 
23 So I started selling merchandise for the boutique. And I started off with purses, 
24 then moved on to jewelry, and then I sell clothes. So I sell unique ladies accessories and 
25 apparel.  12 
1 Q That's great. 
2 And forgive me. I just wanted to note, we had somebody else in the waiting 
3 room, a David Schulz. Is that another counsel for your team? 
4 Ms. Freeman. Yes. 
5 Ms.- Okay. Well, if he reappears, we'll know who he is. We don't want 
6 to admit anybody unaffiliated. 
7 BYMS.-: 
8 Q Okay. So, Ms. Freeman, if you could tell us --first of all, had you ever 
9 worked on the tabulation process in an election before 2020? 
10 A I worked the election for President Obama, the first one. Uh-huh, I did 
11 that, for Fulton County Registration and Elections. 
12 
13 
14 Q Okay. Great. 
And so how did you come to be employed by Fulton County for the 2020 election? 
A I started out with Fulton County years ago, and then I went to do temporary 
15 work for the elections. So that's how I got there. 
16 
17 
18 Q Okay. Great. And --
A Through a temporary agency. 
Q Oh, great. 
19 And I think you mentioned that your daughter has been --as reflected in public 
20 reporting, your daughter had been employed with the Fulton County Registration and 
21 Elections Department for some time at that point. Is that right? 
22 
23 A Yes, she was employed with Fulton County Voters Registration and Elections. 
Q Okay. That's great. 
24 So why don't you tell us a little bit in your own words about your experience of 
25 work on election day, on November 3, 2020.  13 
1 A Well, we went in on election day 2020 as a normal workday to count the 
2 ballots. Came in from different precincts. And that's what we did; we counted ballots. 
3 
4 
5 Q 
A 
Q It's a long --it was a long day? 
It was a very long day. Yes, it was. 
Yeah, even in a normal election, but especially --it's my understanding from 
6 our work that, because there were so many more absentee ballots and mail-in ballots in 
7 2020, that that further added to the burden for election workers on election day. Is that 
8 consistent with your experience? 
9 A Yes. And that was what we were doing at the State Farm Arena; we were 
10 there to count the absentee ballots. 
11 Q Okay. Great. 
12 And we don't need to go into too much technical detail, but, generally speaking, 
13 what were your responsibilities at State Farm Arena in the tabulation process? 
14 A My responsibility for that day was to be an opener, which was to open the 
15 ballots after they had been cut, just to open the ballots from the precincts to make sure 
16 that everything added up, the ballots and the envelopes they came in, just to make sure 
17 that everything was added up. 
18 
19 Q Okay. Great. 
And --let's see. Did you work before election day also, or was your work for 
20 Fulton County in 2020 limited to election day only? 
21 A I started working with Fulton County Voters Registration and Elections as a 
22 temporary employee in August. They had a runoff, so I worked there then. 
23 And then I left because that was over, and they called us back when it was time to 
24 really get busy for the election. So I went to the government center and I worked there. 
25 And then when it was close to the time, because of my work ethics, they called me  14 
1 to come and work with the --at State Farm for the finishing part of it. 
2 Q That's great. 
3 And so it's my understanding, especially because of how many absentee ballots 
4 were submitted in the 2020 election, that the counting continued after election day on 
5 November 3rd. Is that right? 
6 A Well, you always have the provisionals. So, yes, that is correct; you have 
7 voting after the election day. 
8 Q Great. And did you continue to work for the Fulton County Registration 
9 and Elections Department? 
10 A Yes, I did, at the State Farm. I worked there until that was over with. So 
11 we worked at State Farm to do the --the other ballots. 
12 Q That's great. And do you remember about how many days total after the 
13 election you continued to work at State Farm Arena? 
14 A After the election, really we just did cleanup work. And, after that, we 
15 went back to the Fulton County Government Center. 
16 
17 Q Okay. Great. 
So, during the process, you know, I would expect that the day, on election day, 
18 while long and hard work, went as you expected. Is that fair? 
19 A Yes, that is fair. It went long like I expected, because I had experienced it 
20 with President Oba ma's election, to know that the last ballots would come in would be 
21 from Milton, Georgia, and Johns Creek, which is farther off. So that meant that 
22 their --the time was still the same, but then they had to get everything together and back 
23 up to send to the State Farm Arena, for those ballots to be counted, because people were 
24 still voting, you know, so --
25 Q That's great.  15 
1 So at what point after your work on tabulating the ballots or during it did you start 
2 to realize that there was something amiss, that there was, you know, attention brought 
3 to you for the first time? 
4 
5 
6 
7 A Repeat that again. 
Q Yeah, it wasn't a very well phrased question, so apologies for that. 
A That's okay. 
Q I'm basically wondering, when did you first realize that this problem that, 
8 you know, was caused for you here --when did you first realize that? 
9 
10 A December the 3rd was when I first realized. 
Q Okay. And is that --that's the date that Rudy Giuliani and several 
11 associates appeared at a hearing of the Georgia State Senate. Is that right? 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 A I've heard that. 
Q Okay. 
A Yes, ma'am. I've heard that that was the date that he did what he did. 
Q So how did you first learn of it? 
A I first learned about what all was going on that night, the December the 3rd, 
17 on the phone with a girlfriend. And I had --someone wanted me to accept them as a 
18 friend on Facebook, and she began to talk about stuff. So I asked my girlfriend, I said, 
19 "What is going on?" She looked in Messenger, and she said, "Yeah, she's a real person. 
20 She is a reporter." 
21 So I did not accept her as a friend, but I responded to her message. And she was 
22 saying that she wanted to interview me. And I'm like, interview me for what? And she 
23 began to talk about stuff. And that's when it all got started. That's how I found out 
24 about it. 
25 Q Got it. So did you speak to the reporter or to the friend?  16 
1 A I was on the phone with the friend, but I never talked with the reporter, 
2 because after that point --first, I said yes, you know, because I don't know what's going 
3 on. It was new. I didn't have an attorney or a lawyer at that time. So I said, yes, we 
4 can talk. 
5 And then after my phone just started blowing up all night and that next morning 
6 and --I notified her and I said, "I think I need an attorney. I won't be able to talk to 
7 you." And she said, "Yes, you do, but if you want to talk, then let me know." 
8 Q Okay. 
9 So when you first --you know, your friend started mentioning this to you and you 
10 realized that the reporter wanted to talk to you, what did you understand to have caused 
11 it? Did you learn about the video that they played during the hearing? 
12 A No, I didn't know about the video at that moment. All I knew at that 
13 moment was they said that I was stealing ballots, I was trying to steal ballots for President 
14 Biden. 
15 
16 Q And what did you think when you first --
A I did not --I did not understand anything. I didn't --I didn't know what they 
17 was talking about. I just knew it sound like something serious. 
18 So that next morning I left and I went to --because it was Fulton County. And I 
19 had worked with Fulton County Police Department, so I was like, I need to go to Fulton 
20 County Police Department and let them know. 
21 So I went to --I called Voters Registration and Elections, I was letting them know 
22 about all the phone calls. And they immediately said that they wanted to talk to me, 
23 and so I went to their office. 
24 And then I went to the police department. And they got my phone, and it was 
25 just blowing up, and people were talking and cursing, and they were gonna --you know,  17 
1 all the threats. So she handled a lot of the calls, you know, and that's how that got 
2 started. 
3 Q Okay. So I didn't realize that people got your phone number so quickly 
4 after that video was posted on --or aired on December 3rd. But that's really when the 
5 calls and text messages started arriving? 
6 A Yes. And you said there was a video. I did not know about the video at 
7 that time. So all I know is that the phone started blowing up about it. So I didn't know 
8 at that point. I didn't even think how they got my phone number. I just didn't know 
9 what was going on. 
10 Q Right. 
11 So, after you went to talk with folks at the Registration and Elections Department 
12 and then at the police department, what happened next? 
13 A What happened after I finished talking with the police department and 
14 Voters Registration and Elections, I was then told that we had to come downtown to 
15 meet with different departments that wanted to interview us to find out exactly what 
16 happened each --you know, those days. And so they set up an appointment for us to 
17 meet with them. 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A And were those individuals associated the secretary of state's office -­
It was --
--who wanted to meet with you? 
That was one of them, was the secretary of state. 
Do you remember the others? 
Yes. It was the secretary of state --the ones we met with was the secretary 
24 of state, it was the FBI, the GBI, the county manager's office, Fulton County manager's 
25 office. And there was one more. County manager's --attorney's office.  18 
Q And the county attorney. Okay. 
Fulton County attorney's. 
Do you remember when that meeting took place? 1 
2 
3 
4 A 
Q 
A No, not --I don't know the exact date. Everything was a blur. Everything 
5 just kind of was, like, happening. So I didn't keep a record of what happened what day. 
6 I just was trying to live at that point because --
7 
8 
9 Q Sure. 
A --I was being threatened. 
Q Yeah, totally understand. But it was probably within a day or two of when 
10 the phone calls started arriving? Is that fair? 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 A I would say within the week. 
Q Within the week. Okay. That's very helpful. 
So tell us about --
A 
Q 
A I think. 
I'm sorry? 
I think. 
Q Oh, yeah. No problem. 
So, within that timeframe when you met with the law enforcement and county 
19 officials, tell me just generally, what do you remember about the meeting? What were 
20 the topics of discussion? 
21 A I don't remember the exact topics, but I know they were investigating, 
22 like --they were asking what happened that night, you know, with the ballots. And the 
23 reporters, they were just asking a lot of different questions as to what happened that 
24 night. They were trying --they were investigating to see if we did something wrong, if 
25 we crossed every "t" and dotted every "i," whatever we did. That's what they wanted to  1 know. 
2 
3 
4 Q Sure. Understood. 
And was your daughter, Ms. Moss, also interviewed at that time? 
A Yeah. All the ones that were interviewed were the ones that was at the 
5 State Farm Arena that night. 
6 Q Okay. Great. 
7 Did you ever get interviewed again by any of those law enforcement or 
8 government officials, or was it just that one time? 
9 
10 
11 A 
Q No, ma'am. It was just that one time. 
Okay. Great. 
Anything else that sticks out in your memory about the process of going in and 
12 being interviewed? I'm sure it was intimidating, with all of these various government 
13 officials and law enforcement officers. 
A That was it. 19 
14 
15 And it wasn't --I wouldn't say it was intimidating, because I worked for the police 
16 department for 12 years. You know, I maintained the database for 911 for 8 years. So 
17 it wasn't really intimidating. It was just a lot. 
18 Q I shouldn't have suggested that, because I sense that you're not a woman 
19 easily intimidated, so --
20 
21 
22 
23 A 
Q 
A 
Q Thank you. 
--I apologize for that. But that makes good sense. 
Uh-huh. 
So what else --what happened after that? Well, let me ask you, at that 
24 point, when you had the interview with the law enforcement officials, were you aware of 
25 the video at that point?  1 
2 
3 A 
Q 
A No. No, I wasn't aware of the video at that point. 
Okay. 
I did not look at a lot of stuff. I didn't listen to the news. I would have 
4 some people that would call me and tell me certain things or they would send me 
5 different clips of something, you know, but I didn't get many of those. I didn't watch 
6 them. I didn't want to know anything. 
7 
8 
9 Q 
A 
Q Did you later come to learn about this video that had been circulating? 
Which video are you speaking of? 
I was thinking of the one that was shown during the hearing. My 
10 understanding is that there was a hearing of a senate committee and a long video was 
11 shown, and then there was a shorter clip that was kind of made and posted onto social 
12 media and other places, including by Mr. Giuliani. 20 
13 A What did it entail? What did --I don't know which one you're speaking of. 
14 Which video are you speaking of? 
15 Q Oh, sure. So my understanding is that there was a short clip --and we 
16 could pull it up if that would be easier to look at --but where Mayor Giuliani posted a 
17 video that was, like, screens of a surveillance camera about ballot processing during the --
18 
19 
20 A 
Q 
A Okay. 
--you know, election night at State Farm Arena. 
Okay. I can somewhat recall that one, yes, ma'am. So what was your 
21 question about it? 
22 Q I'm just wondering if you came to be familiar with it, and if so, you know, 
23 how did you learn about this video that was circulating. 
24 A How did I learn about the video? Hmm. I think someone probably told 
25 me to look on the VouTube.  1 
2 Q 
A What did you think when you saw it? 
I thought it was horrible. I thought it was --it was horrible, it was 
3 degrading. It was all a lie. They felt that --they made it to be what they wanted it to 
4 be, not what it actually was. 
5 Q Understood. 
6 Did you see any interviews or statements by --well, let me rephrase. 21 
7 I'm aware that individuals associated with or employed by the secretary of state's 
8 office started speaking out very quickly after this to try to debunk the video, to provide 
9 context and provide knowledge that what was being said about the video was not true. 
10 Did you learn of any of those things around this time period in early December 
11 2020? 
12 A I did hear that, you know --after I heard about my name being mentioned 18 
13 times by Number 45 and the secretary of state, I did hear a lot about that they said it was 
14 not true. There was found --after the recounts and the recounts, that they found it to 
15 be incorrect, that we did not steal the ballots, we did not have anything to do with 
16 changing the numbers. 
17 Q Okay. 
18 And I'm also aware that President Trump appeared in Georgia at the beginning 
19 part of December --I think it was around December 6th --for a campaign rally in 
20 connection with the Senate runoff, the next election that was going on in Georgia, and he 
21 played a news clip that focused on this video. 
22 Were you aware of this at the time when he did that? 
23 
24 
25 A 
Q 
A Not at the time. 
Okay. When did you learn of it? 
Probably much later. Ma'am, I did not follow the news. I was not  22 
1 interested in seeing it, because it was --it was a horrible experience. So I wasn't trying 
2 to keep up with anything. 
3 
4 Q 
A Sure. 
I wanted it all to go away, because it was all a big lie, and there was nothing I 
5 could do at the moment. I was just trying to find me an attorney. 
6 Q Understood. 
7 When you did learn that the President had stopped the campaign rally to air this 
8 news clip focusing on these lies, these allegations, how did that make you feel? 
9 A I don't even think I remember hearing about him and a campaign --about 
10 what you just said. 
11 Q Okay. Got it. 
12 But it sounds like you certainly did hear about it when you had the phone call with 
13 Georgia Secretary of State --
14 
15 
16 
17 A 
Q 
A 
Q Right. Yes. 
--Brad Raffensperger. Is that right? 
Yes. 
Okay. So tell me about the circumstances. How did you learn about that 
18 phone call having taken place? 
19 A On the news. Just, I heard about it from just listening to the news. 
20 Sometimes, every now and then, I would turn on the news just to hear something, or I 
21 would put my name in Google or something, and it would bring up different things. 
22 Q Okay. So what did you learn when you saw this call had taken place? Did 
23 you find out that your name was mentioned during the phone call? 
24 A Yes, I found out my name was mentioned during that phone call, later. 
25 don't know exactly when.  1 
2 
3 
4 more. Q 
A 
Q So I know you discussed this a little bit in your statement, so -­
Okay. 
--thank you in advance for your patience as I go over this stuff a little bit 
5 But tell me about, you know, sort of, how you learned about the President using 
6 your name in that call and what the impact was for you. 
7 A Once again, I heard about it on the news. I don't know how, whether it 
8 was VouTube, Google, or if someone called me to tell me, I'm not really sure. 
9 But the way that it made me feel was horrible. It's like, really? The President 
10 of the United States is mentioning my name and saying to find some ballots. I'm sure 
11 you can just find --all we need is --however many they said. All you need is that. 
12 And to mention my name over and over, I thought --it was horrible. It's like, 23 
13 really? You have nothing else to do other than to mention my name several times, over 
14 and over? 
15 Q And, at that point, it was almost a month or about a month after this lie, this 
16 allegation, had first arisen, and as I think we were, you know, referring to earlier, there 
17 were plenty of opportunities for the truth about what happened to have come out at that 
18 point. 
19 Did that factor into your, sort of, interpretation, your understanding of what the 
20 President was doing, the fact that it had already been proven to be a lie at that point? 
21 A At that point, it had been proven to be a lie, but he --I felt that that wasn't 
22 good enough for him. He still was trying to say that I committed a crime. He and all of 
23 the threats and everything that I got, they was trying to say I committed a crime. So 
24 that wasn't enough for him. 
25 Q Right.  1 Did you learn --did you ever learn about the President's speech on January 6th 
2 itself on the Ellipse? 
3 
4 
5 
6 A 
Q 
A 
Q I'm not sure. 
Okay. 
What did the speech say? 
Well, the President spoke from the Ellipse, which is the area in front of the 
7 White House here in Washington. There was a large crowd, and he spoke to them at 24 
8 length. But included in his comments was a reference to the allegation about suitcases 
9 of ballots. 
10 And so I just wondered whether you became aware of the President including a 
11 remark about this lie that we've been discussing today in his speech on January 6th. 
12 A No, ma'am, I did not. I was not aware of him with the speech, January 6th, 
13 no. 
14 Q Okay. Great. 
15 Well, I would like to talk with you a little bit more about the threats that you 
16 received and the impact on you, but before I do that, I just want to see if there are any big 
17 points in the story of, sort of, where this lie originated and where you, kind of, saw it 
18 appear that you'd like to talk about. 
19 A Where did I see the lie appear? I saw the lies appear in the --like I said, it 
20 was either Google or somebody called to tell me. 
21 I didn't watch television. I did not want to see it, because it was horrible lies, and 
22 I did not want to live that over and over. So I don't remember a lot of what happened 
23 when it happened. 
24 
25 Q 
A Okay. 
And if sometimes I would have people to tell me, I'd say, "I don't want to  25 
1 hear that. I'm not interested." You know, I didn't want anybody calling me to tell me 
2 anything. Don't send me an email, no text message, no nothing. I don't want to know. 
3 Q Understood. 
4 So let's talk a little bit more about the threats, as much as you are comfortable 
5 discussing, that you received. 
6 So I know you've already told us that in the early December time period, right 
7 around December 3rd or 4th --
8 A Uh-huh. 
9 Q --your phone started ringing and that you went to the police department. 
10 What happened after that? What impact on your life did you experience after that 
11 point? 
12 
13 A The impact that it had on my life? It turned my whole life around. 
I was afraid to go out. I was afraid for people to call my name. Like I said, I was 
14 afraid to order food and somebody would ask, what's your name? That was --I was, 
15 like, just standing there looking at them, you know, and then I would have to come up 
16 with some name. 
17 Or if I was at the red light and somebody was staring, you know, it was like, I didn't 
18 know why they were staring, why --you know. 
19 So I was always fearful, I was always afraid. 
20 Q And I think you told us earlier in your statement, you remarked about a time 
21 where you had to move out of your house. Is that right? 
22 
23 A 
Q Yes, ma'am, that's right. I had to move out of my house. 
Okay. So tell us a little bit more about that. What prompted you to 
24 decide that you needed to leave your house for your own safety? 
25 A Around the week of January 6th, the FBI informed me that I needed to leave  1 my home for safety. And I left my home for safety around that time. 
2 Q Understood. How long did you, you know, remain outside of your home 
3 for your own safety? 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 A 
Q 
A 
Q 
A I stayed away from my home for approximately 2 months. 
And it's obvious, but I have to say these things for the record --
Yes, ma'am. 
--so thanks for your patience, but how did that impact you? 
It was horrible. I felt homeless. I felt, you know, I can't believe --I can't 
9 believe this person has caused this much damage to me and my family, to have to leave 
10 my home that I've lived there for 21 years. And, you know, I'm having to have my 26 
11 neighbors watch out for me, you know, and I have to go and stay with somebody. It was 
12 hard. It was horrible. 
13 Q And your conversation with the FBI about needing to leave your home for 
14 your own safety, or perhaps recommending it, do you remember, was there a specific 
15 threat that prompted that, or was it the accumulation of threats that you had received? 
16 A What prompted it was, it was getting ready to --January 6th was about to 
17 come. And they did not want me to be at home because of all the threats and 
18 everything that I had gotten. They didn't want me to be there, in fear of, you know, that 
19 people would come into my home. And I had a lot of that, so they didn't want me to be 
20 there, just in case something happened. 
21 I asked, how long am I gonna have to be out of my home? They said, at least 
22 until the inauguration. 
23 
24 Q 
A Wow. 
Because it was just that bad, with people coming to my home and 
25 threatening me and me getting mail, letters, and phone calls, you know, the phone calls  27 
1 saying different stuff, like, "We know where you live. We're coming to get you." It was 
2 a lot of different horrible, racist threats. And --yeah. 
3 Q Understood. 
4 So, just generally speaking, what were the types of threats that you received? 
5 know you've told us you got a lot of phone calls. 
Uh-huh. 6 
7 A 
Q Were you also getting text messages or other types of email, electronic 
8 communications containing threats? 
9 A The type threats that I received was email, text messages, Messenger, 
10 Linked In, mail, people coming to the house. 
11 And the types were --they would say things like, "We know where you live, and 
12 we're coming to get you, nigger." Or, "You're going to jail, and you're gonna rot in hell." 
13 Or, you know, "Your voice mail says about your faith and you're a Christian. Do you think 
14 Biden is gonna help you now that you have given him all these ballots? Do you think 
15 he's gonna come to help you out? He's not. He don't care anything about you." 
16 "You and your daughters are" --they would just use a lot of curse words. Yeah. 
17 Q And did people come to your home and either protest or make threats 
18 directly in the vicinity of your home? 
19 
20 A Yes, people did come to my home. 
didn't order, to my home and my mom's home. 
21 was behind the pizza. There was pizzas being delivered that I 
And I found out later what the thing 
22 And the day that I left, when FBI advised me that I needed to leave, that same day 
23 my neighbor called and --one of my neighbors --and asked if I was at home. I was like, 
24 no. And that's when she advised me that there were people that were on the bullhorns 
25 talking negative about me and, you know, they were coming to get me and --they were  28 
1 coming to get me. 
2 And people did --the lady did come to my home to say that --well, that was later. 
3 I don't know. Everything kind of ran together. But that lady did come to my home and 
4 said that she was coming to help me; they had sent her from Chicago to help me. And 
5 my definition of "help" was help --help me. But I later found out that that wasn't what 
6 she meant. She was trying to help me to safety from me doing something wrong, and so 
7 she was gonna put me in safety. 
8 Q And is this the --you referred to it in your statement, about someone trying 
9 to get you to sign something or admit to something that you didn't do. Is that the same 
10 circumstance that you're remembering? 
11 
12 A 
Q Yes, that is the same circumstance. Yes. 
Okay. 
13 And I think you mentioned earlier, and I think it's in your complaint and litigation, 
14 a story about people trying to force their way into your mother's house, saying that they 
15 wanted to effectuate a citizens' arrest. Is that right? 
16 
17 A 
Q Yes, that is right. That is the same person. 
Same person. Okay. So tell us, how did that happen? And what was the 
18 impact on both you and your mother when that occurred? 
19 A And I'm pretty sure it was --I remember it was 48 hours before the 6th, this 
20 person came to my home. And, at that point, I was just scared to go to the door for 
21 anybody, so I called my neighbor, and I was like, "Who is that at my house? Who is that 
22 outside?" 
23 And so she came out, and she was --she was yelling. And I remember hearing, 
24 the lady said, "Can we come and talk to you? We didn't want to yell." And she said 
25 that we want to talk to Ms. Freeman, they sent me from Chicago, we want to talk to her  29 
1 and get her some help. 
2 And she said, "Well, she's not at home, so leave your number, and I'll have her 
3 call." So I immediately called the police. And when the police came, she stayed there 
4 for a long time. And I was telling her about it. And I said, "Well, I have a contact 
5 person with the FBI." 
6 And she called the FBI, and they talked and asked if it was okay for this lady to 
7 meet me at the police department to talk about how she could help me. And there was 
8 a police report made. And she --we went to the police department. 
9 So I found out, the time that it took her to leave my house and to get to the police 
10 department, that's when she had been to my mom's house, and they tried to force their 
11 way into that house, which I didn't know at that moment, but I found out later. And 
12 then she --we met at the police department. 
13 Q Okay. 
14 About how many times during this period between election day and January 6th, 
15 just to start, about how many times do you think you needed to call the police or the FBI 
16 because of the threats that you were receiving? 
17 A How many times did I have to call the police department? Probably about 
18 six, seven, or eight times. I wanted to make a police report for different people coming 
19 to the house. And some would make a police report, and some wouldn't. 
20 Q Understand. Okay. 
21 Ms.. So, Ms. Freeman, we're joined by a member of the select committee, 
22 Congressman Adam Schiff. 
23 Good afternoon, Mr. Schiff. 
24 BYMS.-: 
25 Q So, Ms. Freeman, let me go back over my notes. I think you have covered  30 
1 most of what we were going to talk about in your earlier statement or in response to my 
2 questions. 
3 Did you keep documents reflecting the threats that you received, either emails or 
4 text messages, anything like that? 
5 A Yes, I kept a lot of them. I was advised that I needed to keep them. 
6 Q Okay. And what about police reports that you made? Did you keep 
7 copies or anything like that about police reports that were made? 
8 A No, ma'am, I didn't keep copies. I figured they would be held at the police 
9 department so I didn't need to go and pick up a copy. 
10 Q Sure. Okay. 
11 And I think that, to the extent that you're comfortable sharing, we'd love to work 
12 with your attorneys to incorporate some of the threats that you received into our record 
13 in connection with this. And we can talk with your counsel about that afterwards. 
14 So we talked a lot about the time period leading up to January 6th. What was 
15 your experience on January 6th itself? I think that fell during the time period when you 
16 had left your house for your own safety. Is that right? 
17 A That is right. That's when I left my home. 
18 Q Okay. So, hopefully, there was nobody able to physically threaten you, but 
19 did you continue to receive any other types of threats during the time period and on 
20 January 6th? 
21 A I did. I did receive other threats, via text message. Linked In had shut my 
22 account down, because they said I was --it was creating --I don't know the word they 
23 used, but it was creating something that would keep them --they didn't want me on 
24 Linkedln anymore. 
25 And I had to change my Facebook page and my business. That was hard.  1 Because now I don't have --I couldn't --my customers couldn't find me --
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 Q 
A 
Q 
A 
Q Right. And --
--in --
Oh, I'm sorry. 
--in the middle of a pandemic. 
Right. Exactly. 
So tell us a little bit more, if you're able to, about the impact on your business. 
8 know you just mentioned that you had to change your social media profiles. How did 
9 that impact your ability to carry on, you know, doing business as Lady Ruby? 
10 A It impacted my business to the point where I really didn't have any 
11 customers at that moment, because I had to change --they couldn't contact me. I had 31 
12 to have my phone number changed. And when they received my phone to pull all of the 
13 threats and everything off of it, my phone just crashed. It was so many, it was hundreds 
14 and hundreds of text messages and emails. 
15 So it affected my business because --as I say, now I don't have the same business 
16 name. I had to shut down everything for the business. 
17 
18 that? 
19 
20 Q 
A 
Q And have you been able to rebuild any of the business that you had before 
I'm getting there with rebuilding my business. I'm getting there. 
Understood. 
21 You talked a little bit in your opening remarks, your statement, about your sense 
22 of personal safety and how hard this experience has been. 
23 
24 A 
Q Uh-huh. 
It's now been more than a year since this all took place, but I understand 
25 from your comments and from public reporting that these threats and the impact on you  32 
1 from this lie continue to this day. Is that right? 
2 A That is correct. The impact is great. The lie continues. Yeah, it 
3 really --it really affect me. Personally is my name. My name is out there. It's just 
4 destroyed. 
5 So it's hard for me to --I had to get --because of all of that, I had --my security 
6 level was high --I had to have cameras in my home. Never had. I have 11 cameras. 
7 have three motion sensors. I have Ring. I have Nest. So, even if the light comes on 
8 outside and I'm in the kitchen, you know, I'm always afraid. And it can be a cat going by, 
9 you know, but I'm always afraid that it's somebody at the door, you know. Or if the Ring 
10 goes off if I'm sleeping or whatever --but it could be just, I don't know, the sun. And 
11 during the day or at night, I don't know what happens, but it's just scary. 
12 Sometimes I sleep with the light on. Sometimes I leave a light out in the 
13 bathroom, you know, on, not directly in the room. It depends on how scared I am. 
14 might sleep with the light on. And I've always been a person for the dark, no light, no 
15 television. So I find myself sleeping with the television on sometimes.  33 
1 
2 [4:58 p.m.] 
3 BYMS.-: 
4 Q Understandable. You made some comments at the beginning about seeing 
5 yourself as a part of the larger or --I interpreted them as placing yourself as part of the 
6 larger community of election workers throughout the country. And I appreciated what 
7 you said about the purpose of doing so is to enable our fellow citizens to be able to --and 
8 I'm sorry for roughly paraphrasing you, but to have their voice heard and cast their votes. 
9 So I wondered if you could talk a little bit more about what you think your 
10 experience after the 2020 election, what impact that has on other election workers across 
11 the country? 
12 A The impact it had on me, it made me believe that it wasn't just about who 
13 was a scapegoat. That's how I felt about it. It was --it was about keeping 
14 citizens --keeping people from voting, from even working the elections. It was to keep 
15 us from voting. It was --yeah. It was to scare us. 
16 Q 
17 experience? 
18 
19 
20 A 
Q 
A Do you think that you would ever work as an election worker again after this 
Do you think --do I think I would ever work the elections? Definitely not. 
Do you think it has the effect of discouraging others from participating --
1 pray that it does not. I --I don't want people to be discouraged. I want 
21 this to teach them, even the more so is to go out and vote. I want people to know that 
22 they shouldn't be afraid. You should go and vote. Your voice counts. Your voice 
23 needs to be heard. You need to be that number. You need to be in that number of 
24 voters for all --wherever you live, yeah. Go and vote. 
25 And also to work --work the elections to make sure you can do the job. You can  34 
1 do it. Don't let what happened to me stop anyone from doing that. 
2 But I wouldn't do it, because it did happen to me, and I need to just stay out of the 
3 picture totally. 
4 
5 Q 
A Yep. 
Because I think that could cause a problem for the next person that wants to 
6 do that, so I want them to feel safe by going to vote and make their voice be heard. 
7 
8 Q Understood. 
So I know that you have pursued litigation following these efforts and have a case 
9 pending, a defamation case. So I wondered if there is anything you'd like to share with 
10 us about your thought process around initiating litigation? 
11 
12 
13 A No. I would like --not like to talk about anything with the litigation. 
Q Okay. That's understandable. 
Ms.~ So let me pause for a moment here, see if any of my colleagues or 
14 Mr. Schiff, if you have anything that you'd like to ask? 
15 
16 Mr. Schiff. Yes. Thank you. 
And I appreciate --I very much appreciate your coming in today. As you can see, 
17 I'm in a less than luxurious environment, being in a car. But I --1 want to thank you for 
18 the courage you displayed. I want to thank you for coming in testify today. And I feel 
19 terrible about what you've been through and what other elections officials are incurring 
20 around the country. 
21 I know you covered this earlier, but if you wouldn't mind covering it again, I would 
22 just love to hear it. I'm sorry I wasn't able to join you earlier. But can you tell me 
23 when you first came to learn --how you first came to learn that --that people were 
24 pushing this big falsehood about --upon you and your mom and what was --what took 
25 place? When did that first come to your attention? When did someone first alert you  35 
1 that, Hey, there are people out there saying that you did such and such? How did that 
2 come to your attention? 
3 
4 
5 Ms. Freeman. I first found out about the lies --I don't know a certain date that I 
found out, but what I do know is that I was afraid. 
when it happened. I just felt that this is horrible. How did I --you know, I was afraid 
This whole thing is horrible. 
6 And trying to force your way into my mom's house, that --that did --and I didn't 
7 find out that until later when my daughter mentioned it. And I just got quiet, and she 
8 says, Well, grandmother knew that you were under a lot of stress, and she didn't say 
9 anything. 
10 And I was just done. It's like how could you --I was already bothered with that 
11 lady. But then, when I found out that, I really was --she was not on my good side. 
12 Mr. Schiff. I can't imagine. 
13 Going back to that first time that you became aware that people were pushing this 
14 lie about you and about your mom, was it --did you find out about it watching television? 
15 Did it come to your attention on social media? Do you recall how you first came to learn 
16 that somebody was making this outlandish claim about you? 
17 Mr. Gottlieb. One thing, Congressman. I think you --I think there are two 
18 different threads that may be getting crossed here. One is the story relating to your 
19 mom's house. The other is, I think, Congressman, you may be referring to 
20 Ms. Freeman's daughter, Shaye Moss, who was caught up in the --caught up in the lies 
21 about what happened on election night. And I just want to make sure that we're talking 
22 about the same thing here. 
23 Mr. Schiff. Yes. And I was talking about when you first learned about the lies 
24 about the balance and false claims along those lines. 
25 Ms. Freeman. Mr. Rudy Giuliani and Number 45 Campaign started the lies about  36 
1 me and made my name become public. 
2 Mr. Schiff. And how did you first learn about that --
Ms. Freeman. I first --
Mr. Schiff. --if you can remember? 3 
4 
5 Ms. Freeman. I first learned about it --I think it was --everything began to kind 
6 of run together for me, but I do remember seeing a video about the --on YouTube about 
7 the --what they said appeared to be a flash drive that we were passing around. And 
8 that's --that's when I first learned about that, if that's what you're speaking of? 
9 Ms.~ And I think --
10 
11 
12 
13 Mr. Schiff. Yes. 
Ms.- Mr. Schiff, hey, sorry. It's-. If I could just interject, too. 
BYMS.-: 
Q Ms. Freeman, I think you --you told us earlier in your interview about when 
14 your phone started ringing --
15 
16 
17 
18 A Right. 
Q --on December 3rd. 
A Right. 
Q And you went to the elections department, but also to the police 
19 department. 
20 Mr. Schiff wasn't able to join us for that part, so --
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 A Okay. 
Q --at the risk of having you repeat yourself --
A Okay. 
Q --maybe you could tell him a little bit about that. 
A Okay. On December --thank you. Thank you. Yes.  37 
1 When I first heard about everything was December the 3rd. That's when my 
2 phone started blowing up, and I had the news reporter that was trying to get in touch 
3 with me through Messenger, and wanted to interview me. And so, I guess, on 
4 December the 3rd, my phone just started blowing up, and I was getting all these text 
5 messages and emails and --and that's when that --couldn't wait for that next morning. 
6 I went to the police department for Fulton County, because I previously worked 
7 for Fulton County, and it all happened --even though it happened in city of Atlanta, but it 
8 was Fulton County Voter Registration and Election, and I went there. 
9 I went to talk with the election workers, the supervisors there, and then I went to 
10 talk with the police department to make a police report. And she got my phone, and the 
11 calls were coming in, and she was answering those calls, you know, and talking to them. 
12 And they were, you know, threatening me even on the phone, and them coming to get 
13 me. 
14 Mr. Schiff. Yeah. And so the first you learned about all this was your phone 
15 started blowing up and all of these texts and email messages? 
16 
17 Ms. Freeman. Yes. 
Mr. Schiff. And were they from strangers, or was it people that you knew that 
18 were --that you had to find out what was going on? 
19 Ms. Freeman. No. These was from strangers. I didn't know any of these 
20 people. I did have one of my customers to call me and ask me --he said, We hear about 
21 it. Are you okay? They were calling about my safety. 
22 But all of the calls really that was coming in was death threats and terroristic 
23 threats and harassments and those type calls and text messages and emails. 
24 Mr. Schiff. Thank you for sharing that with me, and I --we'll look forward to 
25 reading the rest of your interview today. Once again, I really appreciate your willingness  38 
1 to come and testify before our committee. 
2 And having been on the receiving end of a small number of death threats myself, I 
3 know what that's like tragically. And, again, I want to thank you for your courage and 
4 the public service that you have performed and will continue to perform. And it's nice 
5 to meet you, even at a distance. 
6 
7 
8 
9 Ms. Freeman. Thank you, sir. 
Ms.- Okay. Great. 
Mr. Schiff. Thanks,-· 
Ms.- Thanks, Mr. Schiff. 
10 So, Ms. Freeman, I think we've walked through what I planned to cover today, but 
11 I wanted to give you the opportunity if there is anything else that you think that we've 
12 missed that you'd like to discuss, or if your counsel have anything they would like to add. 
13 Ms. Freeman. I just want to make sure that this doesn't happen to anybody else. 
14 I want to make sure that the --I really want to call her name. I want to make sure that 
15 she never goes to anybody else's house. I don't want her to feel like she's gotten by 
16 with it and she is acceptable and she should come to anybody's house. You should 
17 never go to anybody else's house again. 
18 Ms.- Understood. 
19 Anything else about the --about the experience and that I have, you know, 
20 neglected to cover about having to leave your own home and the security precautions 
21 that you now have to take, the impact on your personal sense of safety and on your 
22 business? Anything else that you would like to cover that we haven't asked you about? 
23 Ms. Freeman. No. I just --I really don't want anybody else to have to 
24 experience this, because I have to leave my home now. I'm afraid to stay at my home. 
25 I have to leave.  39 
1 I can't use my name again, you know? I'm just afraid. It's like I'm afraid to live, 
2 and I just thank God for the faith that I do have knowing that, you know --that He said all 
3 things work together for the good, the good of those that love Him and called according 
4 to his purpose. I know that I'm called, and I know I have a purpose in life, and I just --I 
5 just want the works that I do speak for me. I want my life --I want to --I want this to be 
6 known as --people ask me, Why you? Why you? Why did this happen to you? 
7 And my --my answer has always been, Why not? Why not me? Why did things 
8 happen to Jesus the way it did? He didn't do anything. So he showed us that it could 
9 be done, so I'm here, and it happened to me. Why not me? 
10 It doesn't feel good at all. It hurts. It hurts. It hurts when, you know, you've 
11 been lied on, you've been threatened, death threats. You know, threats came from 
12 people in --that was arrested for the Capitol offense, and I was on a --and then, when 
13 they went through that thing, that I was on a death list, that hurts. That hurts to know 
14 that your name was mentioned by the President of the United States several times. 
15 All of that doesn't feel good, but I'm here to say that, you know, we as Christians 
16 always have a saying. It's that --but I'm okay. I'm okay. It's not what it feels like, and 
17 not what it looks like. I'm okay. In the end, I win. All I do is win, win, win. 
18 So I'm thankful for my attorneys, the team that we have, and I'm really grateful for 
19 them, because they are the best. 
20 Ms.~ Thank you for that, and thank you for your courage. 
21 Is there anything that your counsel would like to address before we --
22 Mr. Gottlieb. I don't think we can improve on that, so we appreciate your time 
23 and your questions today. So thanks for having --
24 
25 Ms .• Okay. 
Mr. Gottlieb. Thanks for having Ms. Freeman up.  40 
1 Ms.- Great. Thank you again, Ms. Freeman. Thank you for your 
2 testimony today, and thank you for your cooperation. Thank you for coming to see us in 
3 person. We really appreciate it. 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 Ms. Freeman. Thank you. 
Ms. - Okay. With that --
Mr. Schiff. Thank you, again, Ms. Freeman. 
Ms. Freeman. Thank you, sir. 
Mr. Schiff. Thank you. 
Ms.- All right. We'll go off the record. Thank you very much. 
[Whereupon, at 5:13 p.m., the interview was concluded.]  1 
2 
3 Certificate of Deponent/Interviewee 
4 I have read the foregoing __ pages, which contain the correct transcript of the 
5 answers made by me to the questions therein recorded. 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 Witness Name 
Date 41 