MEMORANDUM  
To: Members of the Select Committee  
Fr: Select Committee Staff  
Re: Malign Foreign Influence  
Dt:  December 19, 2022  
 
 
As defined by the Intelligence Community, election influence i nclude s “overt and covert 
efforts by foreign governments or actors acting as agents of, or on behalf of, foreign governments 
intended to affect directly or indirectly a US election – including candidates, political parties, 
voters or their preferences, or politic al processes.”1 With respect to the 2020 presidential election, 
the Intelligence Community’s Assessment concluded that “Russian President Putin authorized, 
and a range of Russian government organizations conducted, influence operations aimed at 
denigrating President Biden’s candidacy and the Democratic Party, supporting former President 
Trump, undermining public confidence in the electoral process, and exacerbating sociopolitical 
divisions in the US.”2 
 
This memorandum describes staff research r egarding illustrative examples of how potential 
efforts by foreign actors to influence the American political climate may have manifested during 
and after the 2020 presidential election .3 The sections that follow detail the behavior of several  
individuals present in and around the Capitol on January 6th, each of whom presented a narrative 
of the events of that day that Russian media platforms amplified . These examples have been 
identified through staff review of public sources including public -facing social media postings.  It 
is important to underscore that it is not possible based on this review of public sources to draw 
conclusions regarding whether  any of these individuals intended that their activities on or in 
connection with January 6th advance narratives promoted by foreign malign interests regarding the 
2020 US presidential election  or either of the principal candidates .  
 
I. Yelena Nikitskaya  
 
1 National Intelligence Council, “Intelligence Community Assessment: Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal 
Elections,” ICA 2020 –00078D, (Mar. 10, 2021), Definitions, available at 
https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ICA -declass -16MAR21.pdf (archived).  
2 National Intelligence Council, “Intelligence Community Assessment: Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal 
Elections,” ICA 2020 –00078D, (Mar. 10, 2021), pp. i, 2, Key Judgment 2, available at 
https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessment s/ICA -declass -16MAR21.pdf (archived).  
3 Select Committee staff produced this memorandum and conducted related research pursuant to House Resolution 
503 which invites the Select Committee to “investigate the facts, circumstances, and causes relating to the domestic 
terrorist attack on the Capitol, including facts and circumstances relating to – … how … malign foreign influence 
operations and campaigns may have factored into the motivation, organization, and execution of the domestic 
terrorist attack on the C apitol; ….”   H. Res. 503, (June 30, 2021), 117th Cong., 1st Sess., Sec. 4(a)(1)(B), available at 
https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th -congress/house -resolution/503/text .   
 
 
2 
  
On December 13, 2018, Maria Butina, a Russian national resident in the United States, 
pleaded guilty to a Federal criminal charge of conspiracy to act as an unregistered agent of a 
foreign government.  She was sentenced to 18 months in prison.4 Butina was the architect of a plan 
to influence U.S. Government policy in ways advantageous to Russia through contacts with 
politically influential gun -rights advocates, including the National Rifle Association, that were 
likely to be able to influence U.S. policy du ring the incoming Presidential administration.   
 
Further to the plan, working with a U.S. person co -conspirator and at the direction of a 
senior Russian official, Butina engaged in a variety of activities designed to develop and expand 
contacts with those likely to be able to exert influence over the next U.S. President’s policies.5 She 
solicited and received guidance and direction from her Russian official controller throughout the 
period she conducted her unacknowledged influence activities in the United  States on behalf of 
Russia.  At one point, Butina had a romantic relationship with Patrick Byrne, the then -CEO of 
Overstock.com, a serial conspiracy peddler and very public supporter of President Trump (who, 
in a curious twist, later sent Butina a large am ount of money).  Byrne, whom the Select Committee 
interviewed, has made no secret of his unofficial role as adviser to the Trump administration.6 On 
her release from prison in 2019, the United States deported Butina to Russia.  
 
In sentencing Butina the jud ge summarized the activity that earned Butina her conviction:  
“She [Butina] was seeking to collect information about individuals and organizations that could 
be helpful to the Russian government, and she was doing this under the direction of a Russian 
official for the benefit of the Russian government at a time when the Russian government was 
acting to interfere and affect the United States’ political and electoral process.”7 
 
 
4 See “Russian National Sentenced to 18 Months in Prison for Conspiring to Act As an Agent of the Russian 
Federation within the United States, ” U.S. Department of Justice, (Apr. 26, 2019), available at 
https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/russian -national -sentenced -18-months -prison -conspiring -act-agent -russian -
federation -within .  
5 Statement of Offense, United States v. Butina , No. 1:18 -cr-00218 -TSC (D.D.C. Dec. 13, 2018), ECF No. 66. See 
also, Spencer S. Hsu and Rosalind S. Helderman,  “Maria Butina, Russian Who Conspired to Infiltrate Conservative 
U.S. Political Groups, Sentenced to 18 Months, ” Washington Post , (Apr. 26, 2019), available at  
https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/legal -issues/maria -butina -russian -who-conspired -to-infiltrate -the-nra-due-
for-sentencing/2019/04/25/3ff24216 -66ce -11e9-82ba -fcfeff232e8f_story.html .  
6 Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, Transcribed Interview of 
Patrick Byrne, (July 15, 2022).  
7 Transcript of Sentencing, United States  v. Butina , No. 1:18 -cr-00218 -TSC (D.D.C. Apr. 26, 2019), ECF No. 120, 
p. 35, available at https://www.justice.gov/opa/press -release/file/1212506/download .  
   
 
 
3 
  It was, therefore, notable that, on January 11, 2021, Butina —now li ving in Russia —
interviewed Yelena Nikitskaya, a Crimea -born Russian émigré living in the United States, about 
the January 6th rally and Capitol attack.  Nikitskaya, a budding social media influencer, live -
streamed herself on YouTube marching to the Capitol on January 6, 2021.8 Butina, co -host of a 
television show billed as the Russian version of “60 Minutes,” interviewed Nikitskaya and played 
portions of Nikitskaya’s footage marching to the Capitol, as well as videos showing violence in 
and around the Capit ol that day.  
 
On January 6th, Nikitskaya was among those who marched on the Capitol.  She would have 
appeared relatively unremarkable among the rallygoers —just another “Stop -the-Steal” zealot 
recording portions of the day’s tumultuous events from the fringes.  She has not, to date, been 
charged with any crime stemming from her actions that day.  She is, quite simply, another face in 
the January 6th crowd.   
 
Closer attention to her activities before and since the Capitol attack raise her profile, hinting 
at several more interesting associations.  Nikitskaya was born in the heavily Russian Ukrainian 
territory of Crimea.  She had, since her 2014 arrival in the United States, become an activist in 
Russian diaspora -centered right -wing circles.  She settle d initially in Sacramento, California, where 
she worked for a local media company called Russian American Media (RAM).  Not surprisingly, 
RAM’s core market is the Russian -speaking community in the Sacramento area.  Her social media 
posts showed her visiting the California State Assembly several times and meeting with various 
elected officials.9 
 
Nikitskaya eventually left RAM to launch her own social media marketing firm, Dezaro 
Marketing , and moved to South Carolina .10 During the same period, Nikitskaya became more 
deeply involved with far -right, Russian -speaking religious organizations in the United States . 
Beginning in 2019, Nikitskaya appeared regularly at far -right events and on social media.  
Nikitskaya served as a speaker at a hard-right “Watchmen of the Walls” conference in Latvia in 
2020.11At about the same time, in 2020, Nikitskaya became a guest political commentator on 
several Russian state -run television channels, including Rossiya -1, Rossiya -24, and RTVI.  Whe n 
 
8 Documents on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, 
(Jan. 6, 2021, Yelena Nikitskaya photog raph of YouTube live stream : “It all starts in the square in Washington 
D.C. ”).  
9 Documents on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, 
(Nov. 6, 2018, Yelena Nikitskaya Instagram post of photograph  at California State Senate).  
10 Kevin G. Hall, “An Insurrection Raged, a South Florida Video Blogger Provided a Play -by-Play - to Russians, ” 
Miami Herald , (Apr. 14, 2021), available at 
https://www.miamiherald.com/news/state/florida/article250505589.html .  
11 Documents on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the Jan uary 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, 
(Mar. 12, 2020, Yelena Nikitskaya Instagram post of photograph from “Watchmen of the Wall s” group conference).    
 
 
4 
 she did, she zeroed in on what she saw as flaws and other outrages of the American political and 
social scene ( e.g., “Trump supporters are being targeted and may be fired” and “Provocations 
against Trump supporters”).  She also amassed tens of thousands o f subscribers on social media 
platforms such as Facebook, Instagram, YouTube (85, 000 subscribers and over 10 million video 
views), VK (a predominately Russian platform similar to “Facebook”), and Telegram.  
 
During and since the 2020 election, Nikitskaya’s  social media posts largely mirrored core 
Russian disinformation themes.  After the election, her topics of choice centered on anti -vaccine 
and anti -mask messages, voter fraud allegations, the dangers of mail -in voting, and President 
Biden’s health and ment al acuity.  Although she appears to adopt a pro -Ukraine stance on social 
media, her posts do not directly cri ticize Russia  and she continues to appear as a guest on Russian 
state TV .12 
 
II. Oligarchs   
 
Russia did not cause the  January 6th attack  on the Capitol, and one can be confident that 
none of Russia’s “oligarchs” —now chiefly famous as the subculture of those who were allowed 
to amass enormous wealth as monopolistic owners of the nation’s formerly state -owned 
resources —attended.  Their involv ement was, instead, veiled , and indirect.  The pro -Russia 
propaganda and anti -American disinformation some promoted amounted to no more than 
“influencing factors” helping to animate a mob already hell -bent on ensuring that President Trump 
remained in office.13 The chaotic and violent images recorded at the Capitol that day provided 
ample material for Russian propagandists to exploit.  
 
  These efforts are well -funded and sophisticated.  Their offerings mimic Western network 
media.  For example, Konstanti n Malofeyev, who was, then as now, subject to public U.S. sanctions 
for funding pro -Russian Ukrainian separatists, nevertheless succeeded in engaging a former Fox 
News producer, John Hanick, who, over a 4-year period, is alleged to have worked to open 
soph isticated media platforms for Russia -friendly “news” messaging —while taking care to 
conceal Malofeyev’s sponsorship —not only in Malofeyev’s native Russia but also in Bulgaria and 
 
12 Documents on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, 
(July 29, 2022, Yelena Nikistakya Instagram post of photograph; July 19, 2022, Yelena Nikistakya Instagram post 
of photograph; Nov. 8, 2020, Yelena Nikistakya Instagram post of photograph; Jan. 14, 2021, photograph of 
YouTube post “5th Stud io. Trump supporters are being targeted and may be fired -Russia 24 ”).  
13 The quoted phrase is significant.  The Select Committee’s organizing resolution requires that the Committee 
“investigate the … influencing factors that contributed to the domestic terr orist attack on the Capitol and how 
technology, including online platforms, financing, and malign foreign influence operations and campaigns may have 
factored into the motivation, organization, and execution of the domestic terrorist attack on the Capitol;  ….” H. Res. 
503, 117th Cong., § 4(a)(1)(B), (2021), (“Functions”).  
   
 
 
5 
 Greece.14 In March 2022, Hanick was arrested in London and charged with knowi ngly violating 
U.S. sanctions and for lying during an FBI interview.  In announcing the indictment, the U.S. 
Attorney for the Southern District of New York called it evidence of a “commitment to the 
enforcement of laws intended to hamstring those who would use their wealth to undermine 
fundamental democratic processes.”15 
 
 Malof eyev is not alone among Russia’s oligarchs alleged to be bankrolling the Russian 
disinformation network worldwide.  One can, in fact, at least indirectly follow Russia’s campaign 
of malicious influence right into the Capitol on January 6, 2021.  
 
III. Charles Bausman  
 
Among the thousands in the mob that stormed the Capitol on January 6 th, Charles Bausman 
is easy to miss.  Footage from the Capitol shows him entering and circulating on the fringes of the 
angry crowd.16 Wearing a MAGA hat, he holds his smart -phone aloft and, as he moves through 
the Capitol, seems preoccupied with filming the mob’s activities.  He does not  himself seem to be 
caught up in the mob’s excesses other than as a co -trespasser.  He is, instead, one of its assiduous 
chroniclers.  Then he disappeared.  
 
Days later and from Russia, Charles Bausman emerged as a commentator on Tsargrad TV, 
a Russian chann el owned and operated by Konstantin Malofeyev.17 There, from a Russian 
television studio, he gave his account of the day, interpreting it as emblematic of America’s socio -
political decline and the corrosion of the American polity.  It was a message familiar  to Russian 
audiences; the Russian government had been pressing that twofold message in various forms and 
fora for decades.  What was strikingly different was the messenger: a first -hand American witness 
and photo -chronicler, describing the  January 6th atta ck, in fluent Russian, as proof of America’s 
accelerating decline.  
 
Charles Bausman and Russia were, by January 2021, well acquainted.  He had, as a child, 
spent several years in Moscow while his father served as the lead Associated Press reporter there.  
On returning to the United States, he attended an elite boarding school and university, going on to 
 
14 Sealed Indictment (unsealed Mar. 3, 2022), United States v. Hanick , No. 1:21 -cr-000676 (S.D.N.Y. Nov. 4, 2021), 
p. 1, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao -sdny/press -release/file/1479811/download.  
15 Department of Justice, “TV Producer For Russian Oligarch Charged With Violating Crimea -Related Sanctions, ” 
Press Release No. 22 –065,  U.S. Attorney’s Office, S. Dist. N.Y., (Mar. 3, 2 022), available at 
https://www.justice.gov/usao -sdny/pr/tv -producer -russian -oligarch -charged -violating -crimea -related -sanctions .  
16 Document on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, 
(Screenshots of Bausman in the Capitol Jan. 6, 2021,  at 2:29, 2:30 p.m.).  
17 Document on File with the Select Co mmittee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, 
(Screenshot of Bausman being interviewed in Tsargrad TV’s studio on January 20, 2021).    
 
 
6 
 take a graduate degree in journalism at Columbia University.  At some point after graduation he 
moved back to Russia , where, for decades, his professi onal activities are unknown.  He remerged 
publicly in 2014 when, weeks after Russia’s first invasion of Ukraine, he launched “Russia 
Insider ,” a neo-Nazi pro-Russia website  that promotes Russian president Putin as a heroic figure, 
while painting the United States as a failed state .18 “Russia Insider ” purports to be crowd -funded, 
although leaked emails show that Bausman sought financial support for the site from Malofeyev.19  
 
 Bausman’s me dia profile grew after he launched “Russia Insider .” For example, he 
became a frequent political commentator on Russian state TV.  In 2015 and 2016, Bausman also 
traveled to New York to serve as a featured speaker at a conference on U.S. -Russia relations 
organized by Elana Branson, who was arrested earlier this year and charged with acting as an 
illegal Russian agent in the United States for nearly a decade.20 21 Bausman also appeared on an 
episode of Alex Jones’s “Info Wars” program, while accompanied by a Russian state TV film 
crew, and broadcast a variety of Russian propaganda and conspiracy theories.22  
 
 Bausman returned to the United States in late 2018.  He settled in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, 
where he bought a large house and a barn , which became a venue for far -right events .23 24 For 
example, several of the organizers of the infamous 2017 Unite the Right Rally (Charlottesville, 
Virginia), including Mike P ienovich, Erik Striker, and Joseph Jordan, made the pilgrimage to 
Bausman’s barn.25 In August 20 20, Bausman’s barn was the site of the launch of a new, hard -right, 
 
18 Document on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the Un ited States Capitol, 
(Screenshot of the Russia  Insider website’s homepage).  
19 Documents on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, 
(Screenshots of emails exchanged between Charles Bausman, Alexey K omov, and Konstantin Malofeyev.).  
20 “Dual U.S./Russian National Charged with Acting Illegally as a Russian Agent in the United States, ” U.S. 
Attorney’s Office, S. Dist. N.Y., (Mar. 8, 2022), available at https://www.justice.gov/usao -sdny/pr/dual -us-russian -
natio nal-charged -acting -illegally -russian -agent -united -states .  
21 Documents on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, 
(Screenshots of the Russian Federation of New Yo rk’s website, operated by Elena Branson.).  
22 Documents on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, 
(Video of Alex Jones interviewing Charles Bausman on InfoWars on October 29, 2019).  
23 Documents on  File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, 
(Photographs of Charles Bausman’s Lancaster home and barn.).  
24 Michael Edison Hayden, “U.S. White Nationalist Group Linked to Pro -Kremlin Propagandist, ” Hatewatch, (Oct. 
6, 2020), p. 7, available at https://www.splcenter.org/hatewatch/2020/10/06/us -white -nationalist -group -linked -pro-
kremlin -propagandist .  
25 Michael Edison Hayden, “U.S. White Nationalist Group Linked to Pro -Kremlin Propagandist, ” Hatewatch, (Oct. 
6, 2020), p. 7, available at https://www.splcenter.org/hatewatch/2020/10/06/us -white -nationalist -group -linked -pro-
kremlin -propagandist .   
 
 
7 
 neo-Nazi political party, the “National Justice Party.”  The stated goal of the National Justice Party 
is to create a white ethno -state and to limit Jewish employment in major industries to  2 percent.26 
27 During this period, new websites featuring these far -right figures —and built by the same Russian 
web developer who built “Russia Insider ” for Bausman —were gaining traction.  Though Bausman 
had no apparent link to any of them, all were one with “Russia Insider ” in promoting pro -Russia, 
antisemitic, and racist content.28 We have found no evidence that Bausman or the network of 
extremists he associated with actively promoted any candidate during the 2020 election cycle.  
 
That changed abruptly after the election, when Bausman began energetically promoting 
President Trump’s fraudulent election litany and “Big Lie.”  By late November, Bausman had 
created a Facebook group called “Lanca ster County Free and Fair Elections,” where he organized 
“Stop -the-Steal” events and spread President Trump’s election -related lies.29 At its zenith, the 
group had over 1,000 members.  Bausman himself posted to this group 285 times between 
November 25 th and January 6th30 Bausman frequently appeared at events advertised in his 
Facebook group.  
 
After President Trump’s December 19 th announcement of the January 6th rally in his “will 
be wild!” tweet, Bausman , on Facebook, urged  “all Americans to drop what they are doing and 
come to the demonstration in support of Trump in Washington, DC on Jan. 6,” adding “this is the 
big one.”  His shared posts included information about the Proud Boys’ plans for January 6th, as 
well as practical information about “parking,  traffic, hotels, where our group will meet up in DC, 
etc.”31  
 
On January 6th, as noted, Bausman attended and circulated among the mob in the Capitol, 
filming  the events . The next day, Bausman narrated from his Lancaster home a 30-minute special 
 
26 The Platform of the National Justice Party, National Just ice Party, (Nov. 14, 2020), at p. 2, available at 
https://nationaljusticeparty.com/wp -content/uploads/2020/11/NJP_Final_Platform.pdf .  
27 Documents on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, 
(Photographs of the National Justice Party’s launch event in Charles Bausman’s barn on August 15, 2020).  
28 Michael Edison Hayden, “U.S. White N ationalist Group Linked to Pro -Kremlin Propagandist, ” Hatewatch, (Oct. 
6, 2020), at p. 2, available at https://www.splcenter.org/hatewat ch/2020/10/06/us -white -nationalist -group -linked -
pro-kremlin -propagandist .  
29 Documents on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, 
(Screenshot of the “Lancaster PA  for Free and Fair Elections” Facebook group homepage).  
30 Documents on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, 
(Screenshots of Charles Bausman’s Facebook posts in the “Lancaster PA for Free and Fair Elections” Facebook 
group).  
31 Documents on File with th e Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, 
(Screenshots of Charles Bausman’s Facebook posts in the “Lancaster PA for Free and Fair Elections” Facebook 
group).    
 
 
8 
 for a popular Russian state TV program.  During this broadcast, Bausman played back his film of 
the day before, describing the  January 6th attack  as evidence that the United States had spun out 
of control.32 33 A few days later, without warning, Bausman and his f amily left the United States , 
apparently in haste,  for Moscow.    
 
In creating a pro -Putin propaganda webpage , soliciting financial support from a Russian 
oligarch with known ties to Russian intelligence,  appearing frequent ly as a  U.S. political 
commentator on Russian state TV, Bausman ’s actions were indistinguishable from those of a 
proxy for the Russian government  purveying disinformation narratives to an American audience.  
He organized a crazy -quilt network of hard -right activis ts, ranging from the overtly racist and 
antisemitic to domestic violent extremists.  While living in the United States, he appeared at events 
side by side with known Russian intelligence operatives.  His efforts focused on expanding distrust 
and fomenting ch aos within the American polity – and President Trump’s “Stop the Steal!” 
campaign was exactly the opportunity he needed.   
 
In many ways, Bausman is indistinguishable from many of the other rioters at the Capitol 
on January 6 th. What makes him remarkable is  that what he did and how he did it were completely 
consistent with the Russian government’s long -term strategic disinformation campaign targeting 
the United States.  That is not to assert that Bausman had any formal arrangement with the Russian 
government;  he may or may not have.  After his hasty relocation to Russia following the January 
6th riot, that question may, in any event, remain unanswered.  
 
What is beyond question is that, in the period before and since the 2020 election, 
Bausman ’s messaging activi ty was consonant with  the Russian government’s two principal 
strategic disinformation objectives: (1) undermine faith in U.S. democratic processes and 
institutions; and (2) accentuate and deepen divisions in U.S. society.34 The Intelligence 
Community assesses that these core objectives in Russia’s targeting of the United States are part 
of Russia’s sustained, broader effort to corrode Western democracies:  “Russia aims to engender 
 
32 Charles Bausman, “Charles Bausman Interview about J an 6 for Rossiya -1, Russian Television, English Original + 
Dub, ” Youtube, (Nov. 4, 2021 ), available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u8TL1IZnWHg&ab_channel=CharlesBausman .  
33 Document on File with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, 
(Charles Bausman’s interview with Rossiya -1 on January 7, 2021).  
34 National Intelligence Council, “Intelligence Community Assessment: Foreign Threats to the 2020 US Federal 
Elections, ” ICA 2020 -00078D, (Mar. 10, 2021), (ICA 2020 -00078D, declassified by DNI Haines on Mar. 15, 2021), 
p. 3, available at https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments /ICA -declass -16MAR21.pdf (declassified 
version of classified report provided to President Trump and senior Executive Branch officials, as well as 
congressional leadership and the congressional intelligence oversight committees, on January 7, 2021, noting, 
“Throughout the election cycle, Russia’s online influence actors sought to affect US public perceptions of the 
candidates, as well as advance Moscow’s longstanding goals of undermining confidence in US election processes 
and increasing sociopolitical divis ions among the American people”).    
 
 
9 
 cynicism among foreign audiences, diminish trust in institution s, promote conspiracy theories, and 
drive wedges in societies.”35 
.  
IV.  Evan Neumann  
 
Evan Neumann was among the hundreds of Americans charged for their role in the January 
6th insurrection. On December 10, 2021, Neumann was indicted on 14 federal counts for his 
conduct during the  January 6th attack  on the Capitol.  The criminal complaint includes pictures of 
Neumann putting on a gas mask36 and pushing a line of police with a bicycle rack; at one point, he 
appears to have reached over the bicycle rack and punched a police officer.37 The complaint also 
notes that Neumann used heate d and extremely aggressive language in confronting the police 
during the attack.38 But even those words and actions would not, at the U.S. Capitol on the 
afternoon of January 6, 2021, have made Neumann stand out from the rest of the crowd.  
 
Neumann had tra veled to Washington from his home in Mill Valley, California on January 
5, 2021.  On January 6, he spent over three hours on restricted Capitol grounds, according to the 
Criminal Complaint filed in his case.  He wore, very visibly, an orange scarf with Cyril lic writing 
and the trident symbol of Ukraine – a scarf typical of those anti -government activists wore during 
the so -called “Orange Revolution” in Ukraine, which Neumann is known to have attended in 2004 -
05.39 40 On January 7, Neumann left Washington, D.C . Then, on February 16, 2021, FBI agents 
followed him from his home to the international terminal at San Francisco International Airport, 
where they interviewed him about his travel and conduct movements before, during, and 
immediately following the  Janua ry 6th Capitol attack.41 By the time he was indicted, Neumann 
 
35 National Intelligence Council, “Emerging Dynamics – International: More Contested, Uncertain, and Conflict 
Prone – Contested and Transforming International Order – Increasing Ideological Competition,” Global Trends 
2040 , 7th ed., (Mar. 2021), available at https://www.dni.gov/index.php/gt2040 -home/emerging -
dynamics/international -dynamics . 
36 Criminal Complaint, U.S. v. Evan Neumann , Case No. 1:21 -mj-00331 -GMH, (D.D.C., Mar. 23, 2021), pp. 2 -3, 
available at https://www.justice.gov/usao -dc/case -multi -defendan t/file/1411351/download . 
37 Criminal Complaint, U.S. v. Evan Neumann , Case No. 1:21 -mj-00331 -GMH, (D.D.C., Mar. 23, 2021), pp. 3 -4, 
11, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao -dc/case -multi -defendant/file/1411351/download .  
38 Criminal Complaint, U.S. v. Evan Neumann , Case No. 1:21 -mj-00331 -GMH, (D.D.C., Mar. 23, 2021), pp. 3 -4, 
11, available at https://www.justice.gov/usao -dc/case -multi -defendant/file/1411351/download .  
39 Criminal Complaint, U.S. v. Evan Neumann , Case No. 1:21 -mj-00331 -GMH, (D.D.C., Mar. 23, 2021), p. 12, 
available at https://www.justice.gov/ usao-dc/case -multi -defendant/file/1411351/download . 
40 Documents on file with the Select Committee to Investigate the January 6th Attack on the United States Capitol, 
(MPD Bodycam Footage from AXON BODY 3X6039BC6V).  
41 Crim inal Complaint, U.S. v. Evan Neumann , Case No. 1:21 -mj-00331 -GMH, (D.D.C., Mar. 23, 2021), p. 13, 
available at https://www.justice.gov/usao -dc/case -multi -defendant/fil e/1411351/download .    
 
 
10 
 was in Belarus, where, on March 22, 2022, “Belarus 1,” the Belarussian state television channel 
(“BelTA”), stated that Belarus had granted Neumann political asylum.  A BelTA social media post 
stated that Neumann had left the United States due to “politically motivated charges” – i.e., those 
stemming from his violent conduct during the  January 6th attack  on the Capitol.42 In a November 
2021 interview on Belarusian state television – by then staffed by personnel from Russia’s RT43 – 
Neumann claimed to have been surveilled by the FBI and ultimately Ukrainian security 
authorities.44 He mentioned no such concerns with respect to Belarus.  
 
As the subject of a federal indictment, were Neumann acces sible to U.S. law enforcement, 
he would likely be among the hundreds facing arrest and trial in federal court in the District of 
Columbia for their January 6th actions.  Neumann is, however, insulated from that risk and, judging 
from his relocation there an d what he revealed in his Belarus 1 interviews then and since, seems 
to believe life in the care of Belorussian authorities is preferable.  Why Belarus, a country 
remarkable chiefly for, Lukashenko, its hardline ruler and Putin acolyte,45 and its role as a 
convenient staging ground for Russian forces engaged in the invasion of Ukraine?  For a true 
Ukrainian freedom activist, the choice would be unexplainable, inherently contradictory.   The 
question, then, is what to make of Neumann, how to reconcile the apparent contradictions in his 
known conduct and apparent affinities.  We cannot know for certain.   
 
Police body -camera footage does show that Neumann was an active and aggressively 
violent participant in the  January 6th attack .46 We also know that he left the United States about a 
 
42 Hannah Rabinowitz, “Capitol riot suspect is granted refugee status in Belarus after fleeing US,” CNN Politics, 
(Mar. 22, 2022), at p. 2, available at https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/22/politics/evan -neumann -belarus -political -
asylum -january -6/index.html . 
43 RT journalists and other specialists went to work at Belarusian state media outlets after the Belarusian staff left in 
protest over the 2020 fraudulent [Belarusian presidential] elections.  As a result, the style of Belarusian state media 
changed to become closer to Russian - style disinformation and propag anda.  U.S. Department of State Global 
Engagement Center, “Kremlin -Funded Media: RT and Sputnik’s Role in Russia’s Disinformation and Propaganda 
Ecosystem, ” GEC Special Report, (Jan. 2022), p. 8, available at https://www.state.gov/disarming -disinformation/ .  
44 Rachel Pannett, “Capitol riot suspect who fled to Belarus granted asylum, state media says, ” Washington Post , 
(Mar. 23, 2022), at p. 1, available at https ://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/23/evan -neumann -belarus -
capitol -riot-asylum -ukraine/; Devan Cole, “US Capitol rioter who fled to Belarus says he may seek asylum there, ” 
CNN, (Nov. 11, 2021), available at https://www.cnn.com/2021/11/08/politics/evan -neumann -belarus -political -
asylum/index.html . 
45 See, e.g., Rachel Pannett, “Capitol Riot Suspect Who Fled to Belarus Granted Asylum, State Media Says, ” 
Washington Post , (Mar. 23, 2022), available at https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/23/evan -neumann -
belarus -capitol -riot-asylum -ukraine/ . 
46 Criminal Complaint, U.S. v. Evan Neumann , Case No. 1:21 -mj-00331 -GMH, (D.D.C., Mar. 23, 2021), pp. 2 –-11, 
available at https://www.justice.gov/usao -dc/case -multi -defendant/file/1411351/download .  
   
 
 
11 
 month before his indictment and that he ended up in Belarus, a close ally of Putin’s Russia47 and 
in no sense a supporter of Ukraine.  We know that Neumann was interviewed on Belarusian state 
television making negative comments about both U.S. and Ukrainian authorities.  We know of no 
allusions, in his interview, to any difficulties in entering Belarus from Ukraine, despite the 
backcountry border crossing into Belarus that Neumann described.48 There is, finally, no indica tion 
that he has left Belarus.  
 
What is certain is that Neumann’s flight to Belarus and willingness to make remarks critical 
of the United States in giving his  January 6th account on Belarusian state television supplemented 
Belarus’s – and therefore Russia ’s – anti-American propaganda messaging.  Belarusian state’s 
propaganda  portrayed Neumann as an ordinary person who was first a victim of “Black Lives 
Matter activists” and then, having “lost almost everything,” was “pursued” by an overbearing 
“U.S. government.”  As is usual with foreign state -propagated malicious disinformation, there was 
a kernel of truth in the Belarusian account – U.S. authorities were, in fact, seeking to arrest 
Neumann.  Omitted and replaced with lies was why – Neumann’s aggressiv e and violent 
participation, for over three hours, in the Capitol attack.  
 
 
 
 