981%[iiiii[ 
Mark> 
What do you think the campaign wants to list of electors for? I'll send it to them in about a half hour 
when I'm back on my computer. 
I dunno. Clayton just called me. Did he call you too? 
I told him outright that I hope they are not planning on asking us to do anything like try and say we are 
the only proper electors. He said he didn't think so. 
I also know that the legal team has a case where a state appointed two sets of electors be an election 
was in question. It would take a court ruling. 
I am def concerned about their inquiry. 
Who are you sending 1t to? 
Clayton. Want me to not find it? Rnc Legal has the list anyway 
Ok Can you do it without contact information and 1f he asks for that say you are looking for that version. 
Let's see how much pressure they put on to try and get contact info. That will give us an indication. 
~ 
voicemai l-962.m4a 
Shouldn't they work with Troupis? 
Keep you out? 
Be honest with you, I'm starting to run a little low on tolerance for some of this. 
my understanding is Sidney Powell has been shit canned from the legal team, so I am not planning to 
bother calling them back 
Thoughts? 
Hitt000076  at er ca 1ng t em ac 
Thoughts? 
Better yet. The whole vm sounds shady Mark> 
Plus he pulled the whole, call two times in a row bullshit 
Nov 27, 2020, 1:35 PM 
Left you a rambling voicemail and interested in your take. 
Tap to Download 
Kim Jorns,vcf 
0.3 KB 
Sigh Nov 27, 2020, 7:00 PM 
"We're going to the state legislatures," 
@RudyGiu liani says on Newsmax . "The 
public has only a small idea of the kind of 
evidence that we have." 
~ Jennifer Jacobs 
twitter.com 
411@1~ 
G 
Hitt000077  Mark> 
Dec 4, 2020, 9:14 AM 
From Joe Olson: 
We are going to need our electors to vote on the 14th 
They need to do it at the capital, the legislature doesn't need to take any formal action. The vote just 
needs to happen at the capital and be recorded somehow . 
Ok. We will work on reserving a hearing room. 
We may need a court reporter there to make a record of it. I am asking Joe. I probably am going to 
want this scripted out and know exactly what to say and run it. In other words, I need a little more 
hand holding than normal because I have never seen this meeting occur and we won't have the benefit 
of WEC helping us is my guess. 
From joe: 
We used Brown and Jones for the recount. There good. A court reporter is a good idea, but the 
electors should also create some kind of form/cert1f1cate that memorializes the vote. If any of our 
electors have done It before, they'll have an idea of what that should look like. 
Shouldn't an attorney from, say a campaign affected by this, come up with a form that passes legal 
muster for us? We can draw one up. I'm looking at a form that Brad Courtney is signing but it's a photo 
from a Google search of the 2016 ceremony and not readable. And I can have Chaz do it. But that 
doesn't mean it's going to comply to anything. 
Going to try to find the 2016 Wisconsin Eye clip of the electoral vote ceremony. 
Ok Yes. We should have them review but if we could try and Mimic past form to show them would be 
good 
How are your days off going 
Eh but it's fine. Christmas trip is my priority. 
Stacy is still sleeping. Going west works well because I can get up early and work before she gets up . 
vies age • 
Hitt000078 